GETT I NG TO THE LAIR 
Very few members of the Xanathar Guild have access to 
the beholder's secret lair. If the characters want to get 
there, the following factions know where it is and can 
help them find it. 
BREOAN D'AERTHE 
Jarlaxle has a spy in the Xanathar Guild: the advisor 
Nar'I Xibrinda s, who uses sending spells to transmit in­
telligence to his drow brethren. Bregan D'aerthe knows 
that the safest route to the beholder's lair is a secret 
staircase in the sewers of the Castle Ward. Any charac ­
ter who belongs to this faction can get this information 
fromjarlaxle or another source. 
lf the party includes at least one Bregan D'aerthe 
member with renown of 4 or more in the faction, four 
male drow are waiting for the party at the top of the 
staircase. Their names are Arannis Nur'zekk, Beldar 
Tlabbath. Rylvar Tlabbath, and Draknafein Uriss. Their 
orders are to help the characters complete their mission, 
whatever the cost. These drow also have secret orders 
to kill Nar'I Xibrindas, if he's still alive, and retrievejar­
laxle's bag of holding (see area X35). If you're tracking 
experience points, each drow gets an equal share of the 
XP while a member of the adventuring party. 
HARPERS 
Characters who belong to the Harpers can approach 
Mirt (see appendix B), who knows the location ofXana-
thar's lair. (He has dealt with the beholder many times 
as a Lord of Waterdeep.) 
Mirt leads the characters to a secret stai rcase in the 
Castle Ward sewers (area Xl). As the characters pre­
pare to descend the stairs, Mirl tells them that Xanathar 
doesn't relate well to humanoid s. doesn't trust them as a 
matter of course, and is prone to imagining conspiracies 
wher e none exist. He also tells the cha racters that Xana­
thar has a pet fish and is insan ely protective of it. 
Mi rt won't accompany the adventurers, but he knows 
a secret that could be helpful: Thorvin Twinbeard, Xana­
thar's chief engineer, is a Harper informant. Mirt shares 
this secret with any character who has renown of 4 or 
higher in the Harper faction. 
LORDS' ALLIANCE 
Characters who are members of the Lords' Alliance 
can reach out to j alester S ilvermane (see appendix B). 
jalester doesn't know the location of Xanatbar's lair but 
can get the details from Laeral Silverha nd. 
With the information in hand,Jalester leads the party 
to a sec ret staircase in the Castle Ward sewers (area 
Xl). As the characters prepare to descend the stairs, Jal· 
ester warns them to avoid confronting the paranoid and 
unpredictable beholder. 
If one or more cha racters have renown of 4 or higher 
in the Lords' Alliance, jal ester offers to join the party on 
its mission into Xanathar 's lair. If you're tracking experi­
ence points,jalester gets an equal share of the XP while 
a member of the adventuring party. 
C HAPTF.R 5 I SPRlNG MAD NESS 