A semicircular recess in the southeast wall has steps 
leading up to it. Its floor is 5 feet higher than the arena 
floor, and the alcove is decorated with bouquets of Un­
derdark fungi in stone vases and purple tapestries that 
bear Xanathar's symbol.jutting from the curved roof 
of the alcove is a spectral eyestalk (scrying sensor). 
• A secret door is hidden in the south wall. 
If Xanathar is elsewhere. the arena is empty but under 
surveillance (see .. Scrying Sensor" below). 
If Xanathar is present, it hovers in the southeast al­
cove and uses its ring of invisibility to remain unseen. 
Standing on the steps of the alcove are two dwarves: 
Xanathar's majordomo, Ahmaergo (see appendix B), 
who presides over fight tournaments, and Xanathar's 
chief enforcer, Noska Ur'gray (see appendix B), who 
releases arena combatants from area X7. Ten human 
bandit s and five bugb ears (all members of the Xana­
thar Guild) guzzle ale and heckle combatants from the 
bleachers, while two goblins serve up saJted rat intes­
tines and stirge meat pies. 
joining a Tournament. If the characters enter during 
a tournament, they see a minotaur battling a scarred 
female halfting, Samara Strongbones (see area X7). 
The halfting doesn't want to die in a pointless battle and 
screams for help. If the characters intervene, the arena 
spectators turn violent and attack them. If the charac­
ters let the fight play out, Noska escorts the victor back 
to area X7 while Ahmaergo goads characters into join­
ing the tournament. If the characters aren't willing to en­
ter the tournament, Ahmaergo has them beaten uncon­
scious and locked up while Xanathar watches silently. 
Rules for running a tournament are described at 
the end of this chapter (see "Blood and Fortune,ry page 
114). If a character joins the tournament and wins, or 
defeats its underlings, Xanathar is impressed enough to 
grant the party an audience, during which it tries to sub­
jugate them (see "Facing Xanathar," page 99). 
Scrying Sensor . The spectral eyestal k is a magical 
sensor, which allows an apprentice wizard in area X16 
to monitor this room. See area X2 for more information. 
Secret Door. The secret door in the sout h wall can 
be found with a s uccessfu l DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. It pushes open to reveal area X33 beyond. 
X7. CELL BLOCK 
This area contains four cells separated by bars . The 
rectangu lar iron doors have locks built into them, and 
Noska Ur'gray carries the keys. Picking a lock requires 
a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. 
Breaking down a cell door requires a successful DC 25 
Strength (Athletics) check. The Cell Occupants table 
lists this area's prisoners. 
CELL OCCUPANTS 
Cell Prisoners 
A A male half.ogre named Groz, a minotaur named Um­
pok, and a female orog named Charworl 
B Kidnapped Waterdavians: Xia Shung (NG female Shou 
human bard; see appendix B), Claudio Benzreck (LN 
male Tethyrian human noble), and Arthright Grayfal­
con (CN male llluskan swashbuckler; see appendix B) 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRING MADNESS 
Cell Prisoners 
C A female drow named Raelyn Auvryndar, recently sep­
arated from her companion and subordinate, Zaibon 
Kyszalt (see area X24) 
D Samara Strongbones, a female lightfoot halfling, is a 
Zhentarim spy in league with Manshoon. She is cha­
otic evil and has these racial traits: She is Sm~ll. and 
her walking speed is 25 feet. She can move through 
the space of any Medium or larger creature. She has 
advantage on saving throws against being frightened. 
She speaks Common, Halfling, and Undercommon. 
X8. HALL OF STATUES 
This 20-foot-wide, magically lit hallway connects vari­
ous areas contro lled by the Xanathar Guild. It has the 
following features: 
• Lifelike humanoid stat ues dot the hall. 
• The first time the chara cters explore the hall, a deep 
gnome in clownish garb is dancing and cartwheeli ng 
up and down the hall, between the statues. 
Gnom e Clown . The garishly dressed deep gnome, 
Flutterfoot Zipswiggle, serves Xanathar as a jester. 
He carries a packet containing dust of disappearance. 
Unknown to Flutterfoot, the beholder has tired of 
the gnome and plans to turn him to stone when next 
they meet. 
Flutcerfoot knows the features and layout of Xana­
thar's lair, as well as the beholder's current whereabouts 
and the locations of secret doors, except the ones lead­
ing to area X36. He gleefully offers to serve as a guide if 
the characters correctly answer the following riddle: 
I come with a smile; 
In slaughter, I rest; 
I can be contagious, 
But my medicine is best. 
What am I? 
The answer to Flutterfoot's riddle is "laughter." If the 
characte rs give the wrong answer, the gnome sprinkles 
himself with dust of disappearance, turns invisible, 
and flees. 
Life like Statues. The statues are the petrified re­
mains of intruders and Xanathar Guild members that 
were turned to stone by Xanathar. There are a dozen 
statues in all: four humans, three goblins. two drow, a 
dwarf, a halfting, and a tiefling. 
Secr et Door. The secret door to area X2 is clearly vis­
ible from this side. It is opened by turning a stone knob 
on the adjacent wall. 
X9. GUILD BARRACKS 
This magically lit room has the following features: 
• The walls are covered with lewd graffiti written in 
Common, Dwarvish, Goblin, and Undercommon. 
• In the front of the room is a ramshackle wooden table 
surrounded by empty barrels and casks that serve as 
stools. Drained tankards are strewn across the table­
top and the floor. 
• A dozen moldy bunk beds are arranged in two rows at 
the back of the room. 