Xanath ar Guild Members. Wheo they're not watch­
ing a tournament in the arena (area X6) or listen ing to 
Xanathar give a speech in the audience chamber (area 
X 18), ten human bandits, members of the Xanathar 
Guild, sleep here. They're so drunk that, for the next few 
hours, they awaken only if they take damage . Also, they 
are poisoned while they remain intoxicated. 
XlO. NOSKA
1
S QUARTERS 
Xanathar's enforcer, Noska Ur"gray (see appendix 
B), resides in this magically lit room when he's not 
in the arena (area X6). The room contains the follow­
ing features: 
A marble bathtub with clawed feet rests in the middle 
of the room, next to a large wooden cage conta ining a 
r ust mon ster. 
• Along the walls are piles of broken and rusted hel­
mets, shields, and weapons. 
• Hanging from hooks on the back wall are three man­
nequins made of straw and canvas, with a multitude of 
crossbow bolts sticking in them . 
Noska keeps the rust monster as a pet and feeds it 
items from the piles of discarded helms, shields, and 
armaments. He uses the mannequins for target practice. 
The bathtub, which he has converted into a bed, is pad­
ded with straw and mangy furs . 
Wooden Cage. A simp le latch holds the cage door 
shut. The rust monster can't harm anyone while 
trapped inside. 
Treasure. Hidden under a pile of rusty weapons is a 
wooden chest containing Noska's personal hoard: 37 gp, 
151 sp, 360 cp, and four bloodstones (worth 50 gp each). 
X I I. AHMAERGo's COLLECTION 
Xanathar's majordomo fetishizes minotaurs and has 
decorated this magically lit room accordingly: 
A stuffed, glowering minotaur stands at the north end 
of the room. A large greataxe rests on a wooden rack 
in front of it. 
• In the middle of the room is a 10-foot-long, 5-foot­
wide, 3-foot-high rectangular slab of stone with a 
hand-carved, miniature model of a stone maze atop it. 
Stone Maz e. A detect magic spell reveals an aura of 
conjuration magic around the model maze. A creature 
that touches the maze becomes the target of a maze 
spell (save DC 15). Once the effect triggers, it can't do so 
again until the next dawn. 
Stuffe d Minot aur. When someone other than Ah­
maergo opens the southern door, the ske leton of the 
stuffed minotaur erupts out of its skin, becoming an 
animated minotaur skeleton . and arms itself with the 
greataxe. It attacks all intruders, pursuing any who 
flee into area X8 or X12. The minotaur skeleton obeys 
Ahmaergo's commands. 
X12. AHMAERGO'S QUARTERS 
The magical lights in this room have been dispelled, ren­
dering the chamber dark. Cha racters who have a light 
source or darkvision can discern the following features: 
• The room has bee n converted into a maze, its walls 
made of stacked crates nailed together with boards. 
The walls rise to meet the 20-foot-high ceiling. 
Humanoid bones litter the floor. (Ahmaergo gathere d 
the bones from Undermountain and put them here as 
gris ly decora tions.) 
The maze fills the entire room but for a IO-foot-square 
area in the southwest corner, where Ahmaergo keeps a 
wooden chest and a bed made from the skulls, bones, 
hide, and fur of minotaurs. 
Getting through the maze takes time but isn't difficult, 
except that Ahmaergo has rigged a tripwire halfway 
through. A character in the lead who is sea rching for 
traps spots the tripwire with a successfu l DC 12 Wis­
dom (Perception) chec k. Once spotte d, it ca n eas ily be 
avoided or disarmed. If the trap is triggered, the walls 
of the maze come crashing down. Every creatu re in the 
collaps ing maze is hit by debris and must make a DC 
12 Dexterity saving th row, taking 10 (3d6) bludgeoning 
damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much dam­
age on a successful one. 
Treasure. Ahmaergo's chest contains 121 gp in a sack 
made of stitched flesh, a carved malach ite figuri ne of a 
minotaur (worth 250 gp), and a potion of healing. 
Xl3. ThORVIN'S WORKSHOP 
Double doors swing open into a magically lit chamber 
conta ining the following: 
• Thorvin Twinbeard (see appendix B), Xanatha r's en­
gineer. is building a large contraption in the middle 
of the room. Floating nearby is an albino gazer (see 
appendix B). 
• Tools cover stone tables throughout the room. (There 
are enough tools here to assemble two sets of mason ·s 
tools, one set of smith's tools, and two sets of tin· 
ker's tools.) 
• Other furnishings include a cot and a stack of wooden 
casks filled with Wyrmwizz Ale (a Skullport brew). 
Albino Gazer. Xanathar dreamed this gazer imo ex­
iste nce and sent it to spy on Thorvin, whose loyalty the 
beholder is beginn ing to question. T he gazer is itself dis­
loyal. A wizard character can befriend it with a success­
ful DC 11 Charisma (Persuasion) check and turn it into 
their familiar with a find familiar ritual. When the gazer 
becomes a familiar, its alignment changes to match that 
of ils new master. 
Thorvin Twinbeard. When it is finished, Thorvin's 
contraption will enable Xanathar to pulverize creatures 
that it petrifies, turning them into a fine powder that can 
be used to make plaster. The pulverizer cons ists mainly 
of a tall stone bin with grinding gears at the bottom, and 
a chute where the powdered stone pours out. 
The pulverizer is a pet project ofThorvin's that allows 
him to hang around Xanathar's lair and gathe r infor­
mation, which he sells to the Harpers. (Thorv in puts 
the coin he earns from the faction in a bank, far from 
the beholder's prying eyes.) ff one or more characters 
approach him and claim to be Harpers, Thorvin is upset 
that they would risk exposing him as a spy, pointing to 
the albino gazer. If the characters befriend the gazer 
and promise to go away, Thorvin truthfully answe rs as 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRING M ADNESS 