15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, and a creature 
shack led to the chair can slip free of these bonds with a 
successful DC 25 Dexterity {Sleight or I land) check. 
The mind flayer has telepathically interrogated Zaibon 
and learned about a House Auvryndar plot to co nquer 
Skullport, as well as mounting tensions between the 
drow houses or Auvryndar and Freth. The mind flayer is 
gelli ng ready to implant an intellect devourer in Zaibon's 
skull, then use him to undermine the drow plot and fo­
ment war between the drow hous es. (Were Zaibon less 
useful, the mind flayer would have extracted his brain 
and turned it into an intellect devourer instead.) Zaibon 
knows nothin g of the fate that awaits him. 
Mind Flayer. If the characte rs haven't already dealt 
with Nihiloor, the mind flayer interrupts as they interact 
with Zaibon, entering from area X26 with an intellect 
devourer in its hands. If Zaibon is free or the chair, he 
tries to get as far away from the mind flayer and its "pet"' 
as he can . Nihiloor doesn't pursue anyone who flees, 
trusting that they won't gel far. 
X25. FOOD FOR THO UGHT 
This magically lit room contains these features: 
• The room reeks of death and carnage. 
Three wooden tables are arranged corner to corner, 
forming a triangle, in the middle or the room. The 
floor around them is stained with blood. 
Atop two or the tables, held down with leather straps. 
are two humans (comm oners) dressed like homeless 
men. One looks dead, and the other gibbers like a 
madman. The third table is bare except for an area of 
sticky blood at one end. 
Unhappy Meals. The Xanathar Guild capt ures home­
less Waterdavians and brings them here for Nihiloor to 
feed on. After devouring their brains, the mind flayer 
gives their corpses to his kuo-toa thralls to eat. 
The two men, a locksmith named Skarn Zarphoul 
and a broadcrier named Holvan Ebberek, recently 
heard a dwarf getting his brain sucked out. Skarn is 
stunned and catatonic from the shock or it, and Holvan 
is a gibbering lunatic. A greater restoration spell or sim ­
ilar magic restores either man's sanity. The men were 
hooded and brought here separately, so they know noth­
ing of the dungeon's layout or occupants (other than the 
mind flayer). If their sanity is restored , they are eager to 
return to their families in Waterdeep. 
X26. DEVO URER SPAWNING POOL 
This room has the following features: 
• In the middle of the area is a 10-foot-diameter, 2-foot­
deep circular pool containing luminous green brine. 
Swimming in the brine are four int ellect devo urers. 
• If it has not been encountered and defeated elsewhere. 
Nihiloor the mind ftaye r (see appendix B) is standing 
in the pool with the intellect devourers. 
Rusty manacles are bolted to the walls. (Hosts for the 
intellect devourers are chained in these locations.) 
The brine is a magical substance that radiates an aura 
of transmutation magic under the scrutiny of a detect 
magic spell. Nihiloor uses it co transform humanoid 
brains into intellect devourers. The process is far from 
perfect. A full 90 percent of the brains left in the brine 
rot and die, while the remaining 10 percent tran sfor m 
afte r marinating for ld4 + J days. 
Nihiloor and the intellect devourers make their stand 
here. If the characters flee, the mind flayer sends the in­
tellect devourers after them and stays behind. 
X27. PRISON 
Nihiloor the mind flayer uses this prison to confine 
potential hosts for his brood of intellect devourers. Cap­
tured chara cters might find themselves incarcerated 
here until they can be made into hosts. The area con­
tains the following features: 
Eight locked iron doors lead lo cells, some of which 
have bars separat ing them. 
Three kuo-toa whip s stand guard here and attack any 
creature other than Nihiloor that enters, including 
other kuo-toa. One of the whips carries the keys to the 
cell door s on a ring. 
• A I-foot-tall figurine of an otherworld ly creature rests 
atop a slime -covered alabaster pedestal against the 
east wall, between two cell doors. 
Cells. A character outside a cell ca n pick its lock with 
a successful DC 20 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. 
Each cell contains a reeking chamber pot and no other 
furnishings. 
Imprisoned in the westernmost cell along the north 
wall is Hyustus Staget, a captain of the City Watch 
whom the characters have met (see "The Watch Ar­
rives:· page 27). He was kidnapped while off duty and 
is without his armor and weapons. lf Hyustus has died 
for whatever reason, replace him with a female human 
Watch officer named Cressa Galavarco (LG female 
Tethyrian vete ran with no armor or weapons). Whoever 
is here has a date with an intellect devourer. 
God Figurin e. The figurine on the pedestal is crudely 
fashioned out of clay. H has the head of a hammerhead 
shark, the upper torso of a bare-chested male, dragon 
wings sprouting from its shoulders, and octopus tenta­
cles where its legs should be. The kuo-loa modeled it 
after an imaginary god they call Garshoogah. 
X28. GUILD RECREATION HALL 
Deafeningly loud music and chatter fill this magically lit 
room, which is decorated like a tavern: 
• Ten human ba ndit s (members of the Xanathar Guild) 
sit around two trellis tables. drinking Wyrmwizz Ale. 
smoking pipes. clapping their hands, and stomping 
their feei while two goblins wearing chamber pots on 
their heads dance and sing atop a third table. 
• If he's not with Xanathar in the arena (area X6), 
Noska Ur'gray (see app endix B) is here. drinking with 
the others. 
• A wooden rack along the east wall holds five large ale 
barrels with spigots punched into them. Protruding 
from the ceiling above the barrels is a ghostly eyesta lk 
(scrying sensor). 
Xan athar Guild Members. These villains are cele­
brating the capture of an off-duty City Watch captain 
(see area X27). Characters who eavesdrop on the cha t­
ter hear one guild member say, ··we caught ourselves a 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRING MADNES S 