Watch captain! Ahmaergo says the boss is happier than 
a pink fiumph, whatever that is. Today, free ale! Tomor­
row, gold and glory!" This proclamation is followed by 
loud cheers. 
Goblins. The goblins, Luiz and Vellix, are servers who 
have allowed themselves to get swept up in the reverie. 
If a fight breaks out, they hide under a table and throw 
themselves at the mercy of the party if the characters 
emerge victorious. 
Scrying Senso r. The ghostly eyestalk is a magical 
senso r that allows one of the apprentice wizards in 
area X16 to monitor this room. See area X2 for more 
information. 
X29. TRAPDOOR 
At the top of a stai rcase is a landing with a ladder lead­
ing up to a stone trapdoor that requires a successful DC 
12 Strength (Athletics) check to be lifted. The trapdoor 
opens into area X18 above. 
X30. XANATHAR
1
S GOURMET KITCHEN 
A delightful aroma wafts down the hall from this 
kitchen, blending the scents of rare spices, savory 
meats, and fresh herbs. The room contains the follow­
ing features: 
• Seven kob olds wearing white toque hats dash be­
tween stout tables, frantica lly preparing meals for 
Xanathar and arranging the food on silver platters. 
• Two gazers (see appendix B) dreamed into reality by 
Xanathar oversee the kobolds and use their telekine­
sis rays to hoist and deliver food platters. 
• Two iron stoves stand against the east wall, with a 
slender spice rack nestled between them. 
When it comes to meals. Xanathar prefers the finest 
Swo rd Coast cuisine, including a hea lthy diet of mush­
rooms, as opposed to uncooked meat. All the meals pre­
pared here are for the consumption of Xanathar alone. 
The gazers attack intruders on sight, while the ko­
bolds flee by the easiest route. 
Spice Rack. The rack contains thirty bottles of rare 
spices worth 10 gp each. 
X31. TuE OTH ER KITCHEN 
Black smoke follows the stench of burned meat and 
bread down the hallway. This magically lit kitchen has 
the following features: 
A haggard male halfting frantically tries to cook 
meat, knead dough, simmer sauce, and mix spices 
all at once. 
An iron stove stands against the south wall, and cook­
ing utensils hang from hooks just beyond the half­
ling's reach. 
Halfling Cook. When the halfling spots the charac­
ters, a relieved smile crosses his face. "Finally!" he says 
excitedly. "I haven't had a break in half a tenday. Make 
sure you sti r the sauce once every five minutes." He then 
hands the characters his apron, mistaking them for the 
actual kitchen staff. 
Bepis Honeymaker is a honey merchant who was kid­
napped from his Trades Ward home a month ago. The 
Xanathar Guild tried to ransom him back, but seem-
CHAPTE R 5 I SPttll\:G MADNESS 
ingly his relatives either couldn't pay or decided not to. 
(Jn truth, his rotten in-laws destroyed the ransom notes 
and told Bepis's wife and children that he ran away with 
another family.) Ahmaergo has put him to work as a 
cook but threatens to give him over lo the mind flayer 
Nihiloor every so often. 
Bepis is a strongheart ha!Oing comm oner, with 
these changes: 
• Bepis is lawful good. 
• He is Small and has 3 (ld6) hit points. 
• He has these racial traits: His walking speed is 25 
feet. He can move through the space of a Medium 
or larger creature. He has advantage on saving 
throws against being frightened. He speaks Common 
and HalHing. 
X32. STAIRS AND SCRYING SENSOR 
A staircase curls up to area X22, and a ghostly eyesta lk 
sprouts from the hallway ceiling. The eyesta lk is a mag­
ical sensor that allows one of the apprentice wizards in 
area X16 to monitor this corridor (see area X2 for more 
information). 
X33. CRYPT OF XANATHARS PAST 
This room contains the following features: 
• Suspended in floor-to-ceiling crystal cylinders are four 
dead beholders preserved in embalming fluid. Magical 
lights illuminate the cylinders from within. 
Nine shallow alcoves have murals of beholders 
painted on their walls. Standing in each alcove is a 
beholder-shaped copper urn atop a green marble ped­
estal. The lid of each urn is molded with ten eyestalks. 
(At the back of the westernmost alcove in the north 
wall is a secret door.) 
• The western wa ll is carved to display a scowling be­
holder flanked by two hooded wizards. Beneath each 
wizard's cowl, one glaring eye is visible. 
Xanathar (see appendix B), if present , is gazing som­
berly at the tombs of past Xanathars. 
Beholder Urns. The coppe r urns contain the dust 
of disintegrated beholde rs. If the dust from an urn is 
poured out, it coalesces into the vague shape of a Boat­
ing beholder for a few seconds, makes a growling noise, 
then loses cohesion and falls to the floor. 
Crystal Crypts. Each crystal cylinder has AC 10. 15 
hit points. resistance to slashing and piercing damage, 
and vulnerability to bludgeoning damage . If a cylinder is 
shattered, the fluid within it washes across the floor as 
the dead beho lder lands with a wet plop and expels ld4 
baby gas spo res that grow to full size in 30 days. Any 
character infected by these gas spores gains the follow­
ing Haw until the disease is cured: "I hate other behold­
ers. If I see a beholder, I must try to destroy it." 
S ecret Door. The secret door can be found with a suc­
cessfu l DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. It pulls open 
to reveal area X6 beyond. 
Wall Carvings. Any character who studies the carv­
ings on the west wall and succeeds on a DC 12 Wisdom 
(Perception) check notices that each wizard's eye is a 
button that can be pushed. If a character pushes either 
button, or uses an object or spell to do so, the beholder 