ICTORO ANO AM MALIA CASSA LANTER STRUCK 
a deal with Asmodeus, Lord of the Nine 
Hells. Three years ago. they traded away the 
souls of their ch ildren to escape financial 
rui n. The soul of their eldest son . Osvaldo, 
was taken immediately. What was left behind 
was transformed into a chain devil, which 
the Cassa lanters confined to their attic. 
Their two youngest children, Terenzio and Elzerina, are 
doomed to lose their sou ls when they turn nine years 
old a mere ten days after Founders' Day, a midsummer 
festival that celebrates Waterdeep's founding. 
After the deal was struck, the Cassalanters enjoyed a 
mira culous comebac k. Their banking and money-lend­
ing business thrived whi le their competition suffered. 
The disappearance of their eldest son (and heir appar ­
ent) earned them sympathy. Their philanthropic en­
deavors bought them legitimacy and new friends. They 
became the envy of Waterdavian nobility in sho rt order. 
Seemingly blessed, the Cassa lante rs a ttracted new fol­
lowers to their cult of devil worship, which was Asmode ­
us's plan all along. 
Reneging on a contract with Asmodeus is a luxury 
no mortal can afford, but there is a way for Lord and 
Lady Cassa lanter to save the sou ls ofTerenzio and El­
zerina. A clause in the contract allows them to preserve 
their remaining (and future) children's lives by instead 
paying ·'one shy of a million gold coins, and the sacri­
fice of one shy of one hundred unfortunate souls ." The 
Cassalanters have most of the coin they need, but they 
require the gold from the Vault of Dragons to buy their 
children's salvation without bankrupting themselves. 
Victoro is in charge of locating the Vault of Dra gons 
and securing the gold within it. Ammalia, for her part. 
plans to sacrifice ninety-nine souls in one fell swoop by 
throwing a feast on Founders' Day featuring poisoned 
food. Both the souls and the gold must be paid to As­
modeus at the same time. Foiling either one of these 
schemes spells doom for the Cassa lanters' plot and their 
youngest children. 
CULT OF ASMODEUS 
Lord a nd Lady Cassalanter are the heads of a secre-
tive cult of Asmodeus. The cult convenes at midnight 
once every tenday in the temple of Asmodeus beneath 
Cassalanter Villa. During rituals of worship. members 
of the cult, including Lord and Lady Cassalante r, wear 
crimson robes, golden masks, and golden sac riflcial 
daggers. The masks and daggers are worth 75 gp each 
for the gold alone. 
MEET THE CASSALANTERS 
Each member of the Cassa lanter family relaxes in diffe r­
ent parts 6f the house a nd reacts sepa rately to the dis­
covery of characters intruding in their home. Lord and 
Lady Cassalanter are often out of the house on business. 
especially as Founders· Day draws near; they re turn 
home an hour before dinner. 
CHAPTER 6 ( lll!LL OF A SUMMl!R 