TISSTNA KHY RET 
Madame Khyret is the personal attendant to Ammalia 
Cassalanter and is the family's chief housemaid . 
Madame Khyret dresses in a long black gown and 
wears a headdress with black tasse ls. She is an aging 
tiefling cult fan atic, and she spends most of her time in 
the master sitting room (area C19). 
L AIBA "NANA" Ross.E 
Laiba Rosse, better known as "Nana," is the caretaker 
and private tutor for Terenzio and Elzer ina, and she 
does her best to keep track of their every move. Even so, 
the two often sneak away from her watchfu l eye. 
Nana dresses in flowing red robes. She is a female 
tiefling cult fanati c who relaxes in the twins' playroom 
(area C17) when she's not with the children. 
j ANDA R C H ERGOBA 
As the head chef of Cassalanter Villa,Jandar determines 
each day's menu and oversees all activity in the kitchen. 
jandar is a male tiefiing cult fanatic . He is often in the 
kitchen (area ClO). 
FACING THE CASSALANTERS 
Lord and Lady Cassalanter are formidable spe llcast­
ers and devoted to one another. ff one is assailed 
within Cassalanter Villa. the othe r arr ives as quickly 
as possible. 
A direct confrontation with the Cassa lanters will likely 
result in defeat for the characters, or- if the characters 
and the Cassa lanters both escape with their lives- their 
arrest for assaulting nobility. The Cassa lanters have no 
desire to kill the characters, even in self-defense. They 
take great pains to divide and s ubdue the party with 
their magic while not inflicting grievous harm. 
If the characters reduce Ammalia to 30 hit points or 
fewer and Victoro is with her. he banishes her to safety 
for a few brief moments while he contin ues fighting. lf 
either Victoro or Ammalia is reduced to 30 hit points or 
fewer and the other Cassalanter isn't present, they try to 
negotiate with or bribe their assailants. 
The Cassa lanters don't fear being arrested, since they 
have faith that their wealth, reputations, and contacts 
will keep them out of prison. They do fear the ticking 
clock of Founders' Day. They plead for the characters to 
allow them to carry out thei r plan, if only to save Teren­
zio's and Elzerina's lives . 
DISRUPTI NG T HE 
C ASSA LA NT ERS ' OPER ATION 
Killing or injuring the Cassa lanters carries grave le­
gal consequences, but the cha racters can hinder the 
Cassalanters by destroying or stealing Amma lia's stash 
of midnight tears poison (area C22), destroy ing the 
statue of Asmodeus in the temple (area A7), or keeping 
Lord Neverember's gold out of their clutches. 
GATHERI NG I NFORM ATION 
If the Cassalanters are the main villains, the characters 
might come to their viila if their search for the Stone of 
Golorr or the Vault of Dragons hits a dead end. Victoro 
Cassalanter keeps information related to his own search 
for the stone and the Vault of Dragons in his office 
(area C6). 
CASSALANTER VILLA 
When the characters first come near the gates of Cas­
salanter Villa, read or paraphrase the following: 
Cassalanter Villa's stark white walls and gleaming crim­
son roof and turrets stand out even among the other 
opulent estates of the Sea Ward. A three-story mansion 
lies in the midst of picturesque green gardens dappled 
with hedges and water features. The estate is surrounded 
by a ta ll white brick wall, with a single wrought-iron gate 
as an entrance. The Cassalanter family crest-a green Y 
overlapping a stylized goose being fed-is emblazoned 
on the gate, and armored guards stand at attention on 
either side. 
Cassa lanter Villa is an extravagant manse with dozens 
of lavish chambers for the masters of the house and 
their guests-but its splendor belies the terrible secret 
it holds. The temple of Siamorphe that once Jay beneath 
the estate has been desecrated by Victoro and Amma ­
lia's devil-worship. Now, this great chapel is dedicated to 
the Lord of the Nine Hells. 
A PPROACHING C ASSALANTE R VILLA 
The grounds of the Cassalanters' estate are patrolled 
by hired guard s. Two of them stand outside the gate of 
the estate, two more stand outside the front door of the 
house, and a total of six patrol the grounds at any time. 
These guards are humans and are outfitted in livery that 
bears the crest of House Cassalanter. 
The house is surrounded by a well-manicured lawn. 
A cobblestone path leads from the estate's exterior gate 
to both the front entrance (area Cl) and the entrance 
to the coach house (area CHl). The villa's grounds 
feature numerous deciduous trees and meticulously 
tended gardens. 
S POTT ED BY TH E GUARDS 
Characters who try to infiltrate Cassalanter Villa are 
more likely to be arrested than to be killed. The security 
detail around Cassalanter Villa is meant to raise an 
alarm and deter petty thieves, not to stop determined 
adventurers. If the guards spot an intruder, they do the 
sensible thing: call the authorities. 
The City Watch has small, single-person "watch 
boxes" set up on nearly every street corner in the Sea 
Ward, including the intersection just outside the gates 
of Cassalanter Villa. If a guard sounds the alarm, the 
Watch member on duty fetches a force of forty City 
Watch veterans to cordon off the property. 
REINFORCEMENTS 
If the City Watch gets involved, Lord and Lady Cas­
salanter become worried that someone has caught onto 
their plot. The number of guards patrolling the grounds 
CHAPTER 6 I HELL OF A SUMMER 