C3. LIBRARY 
This is the Cassa lanters· private library. It contains the 
following features: 
• The scent of old parchment hangs th ick in the air. 
• The walls are lined with tall she lves packed with col­
or ful, leather-bound books. Each bookshelf is outfitted 
with a ladder on a rolling track to enab le people to 
reach the highest books. 
• S helves that take up the ent ire so uthwest wall hold 
not books but eighty wide-necked glass bottles filled 
with swirling mist and sealed with corks. 
Hanging on the north wall between two bookshelves 
is a 7-foot-tall portrait of Lord and Lady Cassalanter 
holding two infant children and standing beside 
their teenage son. Osvaldo. (Th is portrait conceals a 
secret door.) 
If Terenzio and Elzerina are here. they're playing on 
the sliding ladders. 
Book s. None of the books are magical. 
jars of Mist. The glass bottles on the southwest shelf 
contain magically captured sounds, including songs , op­
eras, and recorded lectures. Uncorking a bottle tempo­
rarily releases its auditory contents into the library. after 
which the sou nd return s to its bottle. Breaking a bottle 
releases the sound , but the sound dissipates after it 
plays once. All the bottles are labeled. Sample conte nts 
include the following: 
• "Ahghairon 's Dragonward," a lecture given by Khelben 
Arunsun about the dragonward that protects Water­
deep (see "Ahghairon' s Dragonward," page 6). 
• "Canticle of the Silver Chal ice," a hymn to the demi­
god Siamorphe. 
Wulfgar and the Crystal Shard, an epic opera deta iling 
the adventures of a barbarian, a dwarf, and a drow in 
lcewind Dale. 
"Your Beardy Face," a traditional dwarven love song 
popular in the Moonsea region. 
Secret Door. The Cassalanter family portrait hides 
a sec ret door. Tilting the painting causes the door to 
swing outward on hidden hinges, revealing the pantry 
(area Cl 1) beyond. A chara cter ca n notice a s light gap 
beneath the sec ret door with a success ful DC 18 Wis­
dom (Perception) check. 
C4. READING ROOM 
This reading nook has the following features: 
• Lighc pours into this room through four tall bay win­
dows that look out on the butterHy ga rden (area C25). 
Furni shings include a luxurious armchai r and a small 
side table where an empty wine glass s its atop a 
smal l book. 
• A door in the northern wall has a butterfly-shaped, 
stained-g lass peep hole. 
lf Victoro Cassalant er (see appendix B) is here, he's 
reading a historical text titled The Rise and Fall of Hell­
gate Keep and taking notes in his journal. 
journal. The small book on the side table is a journal 
that Victoro Cassala nter uses to take notes while read­
ing. It most ly contains dry observations on atlases of 
CH APT ER 6 I HELL OF A SUMMBR 
FaerOn and history books. A character who flips through 
the journal and succeeds on a DC IS Intelligence (Inves­
tigation) check can pick out a few notes made by Victoro 
that are unrelated to his reading: 
• "Neverember's dragons are an answer to our prayers." 
• "The Cassalanter mausoleum. Inform Y. G." (The ini­
tials refer to Lady Yalah Gralhund .) 
"Golorr is an aboleth. Now it all makes sense." 
If the characters are still sea rching for the Stone 
ofGolorr in chapter 4, you ca n include in this jour-
nal a clue regard ing the stone's location. (If the Cas­
salanters have the stone. it's hidden in area C6 when it's 
not in use.) 
C5. FOYER 
Two gua rds in Hous e Cassa lant er livery are stat ioned in 
this marb le-floored foyer al all hours. lt has seve n exits: 
A door to the entrance hall (area Cl) 
An open arch that leads to a spacio us dining 
room (area C9) 
Three unmarked doors on the east wall (to areas C6, 
C7, and C8) 
A gran d stai rcase that asce nds to the second Boor 
(area C13) 
An unassuming door under the stairs that leads to the 
cellar (area C26) 
Founders ' Day. The foyer is filled with lavish bou­
quets in ceramic floor vases and wea lthy guests chatting 
loudly and drinking sparkling wine, while the gentle 
music of a string quart et drift s down from upstairs . 
C6. V t c TORo 's OFFICE 
The door to this room is locked. The room contains the 
following features: 
• Tall stacks of legal tomes and financial ledgers rest 
atop a solid mahogany desk. 
• A freestanding suit of bronze armor (complete 
with helm, gauntlets, and greatsword) sta nds just 
inside the door. 
If Victoro Cassalant er (see appe ndix B) is here , he's 
seated behind the desk with fingers steep led, deep 
in thought. 
Armor. The suit of armor standing by the door is a 
helmed horror . It obeys Victoro's comman ds. When 
Victoro isn't present, it attacks anyone who ope ns the 
door without a key or anyone not of Cassalante r blood 
who opens Victoro's desk. The Cassalanter children 
know about this const ruct and warn friendly chara c­
ters about it. 
Desk. Victoro's desk is locked and can be opened 
with Victoro's golden key. A chara cter ca n pick the 
lock by succee ding on a DC 18 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools. The desk drawer contains thirteen sealed 
scroll tubes, a s igned contract inside each one. These 
contracts outline the terms of loans made by Victoro 
to various nobles, merchants, and guilds. The drawer 
also has a sec ret compa rtm ent that characters can find 
with a success ful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check. It 
holds a holy symbol of Asmode us crafted from solid gold 
(worth 250 gp). 