Stone ofGol orr. If the Cassa lanters have the artifact 
and aren't using it. it is also hidden in the desk's secret 
compartment. 
C7. CLOAKROOM 
This walk-in cloakroom contains the Cassa lanter fami­
ly's expensive coats and cloaks, and it also has room for 
the garments of up to one hundred guests. 
C8 . COVE RED PORCH 
This covered porch is the entryway typically used by the 
Cassalanters' servants. Ten servants (human comm on­
ers) eat here at mealtimes. 
C9. FAM I LY DINING ROOM 
This room holds the following noteworthy features: 
A dozen chairs su rround a beautifully carved dining 
table in the middle of the room. 
The table is set with golden plates, utensils, goblets, 
and candlesticks. Silk napkins add to the display. 
The Cassalanters dine here as a family. sometimes 
inviting a guest or two to join them . 
Founders' Day. During the party, the dining table is 
converted into a card table. Ten wealthy nobles are play­
ing a high-stakes game of Three Dragon Ante. A char­
acter can play a round by betting 5 gp and making a DC 
15 Intelligence check, adding a proficiency bonus if the 
character is proficient with gaming sets. On a successful 
check, the cha racter wins 10 gp. On a failed check, the 
chara cter loses the stake. 
Treasure. The gold table settings and candlesticks 
are worth 2,500 gp in total. 
CIO. KITCHEN 
From sunrise until an hour after sundown, this kitchen 
is a hive of activity: 
• A half dozen chefs run to and fro, seasoning meat, 
mixing batter, and otherwise preparing an impressive 
variety of food. 
• A rotu nd, red-faced man in a tall white hat barks 
orders at his underlings, bran dishing a sharp knife 
with every instruction. 
Stairs in this room lead to the banquet kitchen on the 
seco nd floor (area Cl4). 
The head chcf,janda r Chergoba (see "Head Servant s," 
page 116), oversees six che fs {human common ers). 
If jandar believes the cha racters are a threat, he shouts 
"For'zaal," causing ten knives to magically rise from the 
counte rs and attack. These knives are ftying swor ds 
that deal 4 {l d6 + 1) piercing damage on a hit. 
Founders ' Day. jandar isn't here. Instead, he's prepar­
ing Ammalia's poisoned feast in a cooking pavilion out 
on the estate's sprawling lawn. 
Cl!. PANTR Y 
This room contains the following features: 
• Casks of ale, fresh water, and cooking oil are stacked 
in the middle of the room. 
Shelves of foodstuffs and ingredients line the walls. 
• The back wall of the pantry is one large wine rack that 
conta ins a variety of splendid bottled wines. (This 
wine rack conce als a secret door.) 
Locked Iron Box. Jand ar Chergoba, the head chef, 
keeps his golden sacrificial dagger, golden mask, and 
crimson robes (see "Cult of Asmodeus," page 115) in a 
locked iron box underneath a sack of potatoes. The box 
can be unlocked withjandar· s golden key, or by a char ­
acter who makes a successful DC 15 Dexterity check us­
ing thieves' tools. A character can also pry it open with a 
success ful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) chec k. 
Secret Door. The secret door to the library (area C3) 
ca n be detected by a character who makes a success­
ful DC 18 Wisdom (Pe rception) check . The character 
discove rs that lifting a bottle of Baldur's Gate pi not 
noir from the rack unlocks the door and allows it to be 
pushed open. 
C l2. SMOKJNG ROOM 
This room contains the following features: 
One gua.rd in House Cassalante r livery stands here, 
absentmindedly exam ining the regal portraits that 
ado rn the walls and rest on fancy ease ls in var-
ious spots. 
• Fine armchairs arranged throughout the room smell 
faintly of pipeweed; the scent is almost obscured by 
incense and delicate perfum e. 
If Lord Cassa lanter has invited the characte rs to 
his home for any reason . he meets them here. If the 
conversation turns to business, he has Willifort bring 
his guests glasses of fine brandy and pipes filled 
with pipeweed. 
Portrait s. The portraits on the walls depict several 
generations of Cassalanters. The ones on the ease ls, 
more recent ly painted, include the following: 
• A somber young Victoro with his beaming 
human father 
A wedding portrait, showing Victoro and Ammalia 
sm iling and carefree 
Twelve-year-old Osvaldo holding a ceremo nial rapier 
Ammalia sitting with baby Terenzio and Elzerina in 
her lap while Victoro reads them a fairy tale 
Cl3. BALLROOM 
This elegant ballroom contains the following notewor ­
thy features: 
In the center sta nds an eerie, human -sized wood-and­
cloth mann equ in with a painted face. It is dressed like 
a ballroom dance r. 
• The polished marble floor is a dazzling mosai c that 
depicts a silver chalice with the image of a golden s un 
on its outside. Characters who succeed on a DC 10 
Intelligence (Religion) check recogniz e it as the holy 
symbol of Siamorphe, demigod of nobility. 
Gilded mirrors and handsome tapestries festoon the 
walls . Along the west wall, windows with crimson 
drapes stretch from the noor to the ceiling. 
Despite its grandeur, this ballroom seems strangely 
dismal without anyone dancing in it. Stairs lead down 
CHAPTER 6 I HELL 01' A SUMMER 