to the foyer (area CS) and up to a hallway outside areas 
Cl7 and C19. 
Dancing Constru ct. The dressed "mannequin" is a 
magical construct that serves as a dance partner . It has 
the statistics of a nimbl ewright (see appendix B) but 
has no effective attacks and is worth 0 XP. When a hu­
manoid bows or curtsies before the construct. it makes 
the other gesture while a magic mouth spell plays a re­
corded message in Common: "Which dance would you 
like? Galliard? Pavane? Waltz?'" The construct follows 
its partner's lead until the dance ends. when it becomes 
still again. 
Founders' Day. During the party, dozens of wealthy 
masked guests dance lo a lively waltz played by a 
string quartet. 
C14. BANQUET KITCHEN 
The banquet kitchen is an additional cooking space used 
in conjunction with the main kitchen dur ing socia l func­
tions. Tt is otherwise empty, and its doors are locked. 
Founders' Day. The kitchen is bustling with activity 
as four chefs (human common ers) prepare an array of 
pies for the noble guests. 
C l 5. BANQUET H ALL 
The only piece of furniture in this expansive hall is a 
long wooden dining table that happens to be a giant 
mimic in disguise. It has the statistics of a normal 
mimic , with these changes: 
The mimic is Large and has 75 (lOdlO + 20) hit points. 
• As an action, it can make three attacks: two with its 
pseudopods and one with its bite. 
• It has a challenge rating of 3 (700 XP). 
The mimic is well treated by the Cassalanters and 
won't harm any member of the household. It obeys only 
Lord and Lady Cassalanter. 
Found ers' Day. The room is outfitted with dozens of 
chairs, and the table is filled with food. Two dozen party 
guests a re gorging themselves here at any time. Four 
doppel gangers from the Yawning Portal have slipped 
into the party disguised as nobles. Their leader, Bonn ie 
(see "Fam iliar Paces," page 20), poses as a minor 
noblewoman going by the name Lyme ria Lhaurilstar; 
s he was hoping lo have a fun night al the party, but she's 
willing to help the characters if they need aid. 
Cl6. P IANO R OOM 
A gleaming grand piano is pushed against the wall of 
this dusty room. Behind it are several unmarked closets. 
This room is generally empty unless a social event is 
taking place or ana Rosse is giving the Cassalanter 
children a piano lesson. 
Found ers' Day. Wealthy guests are chatting here and 
using the powder rooms (area Cl6b). 
C l 6A. STORAGE CLOSET 
This closet holds crates filled with winter blankets, 
mops, and other household necessities. 
CHAPTER 6 I HF.LL. 0~ A SUM M ER 
Cl6B . POWDER ROOMS 
These rooms are locked. They contain mirrors and are 
largely unused except during social functions. 
Founders ' Day. Fancy nobles are waiting in line to 
freshen up. 
Cl7. PLAYROOM 
This room contains the following features: 
• Strewn about on the floor are giant stuffed toys,jack­
in-the-boxes. dolls. and a rocking horse shaped like 
a warhorse. 
A large mobile in the form of a butterfly hangs from 
the ceiling, turning listlessly. 
If she hasn't been dealt with elsewhere, the twins' 
nanny, Laiba Rosse (see "Head Servants," page 116), 
sits here and crochets dolls for the children. 
Cl8. Tw ! NS
1 
BEDROO M 
The twins' bedroom contains the following feat ures: 
• Two four-poster beds take up the bulk of this room. 
• At night, the room is cluttered with dozens of toys. In 
the morning, the toys are returned to their toy boxes 
by a housemaid. 
A life-sized stuffed unicorn stands in one corner . 
lf Terenz io and Elzerina are here. Terenzio is dressed 
in a crude dragon costume and is being chased around 
the room by his sister. who is wearing a knight's helm 
and swing ing a wooden sword. 
S tuffed Unicorn. This inanimate object counts as an 
actual unicorn for the purpose of opening the Vault of 
Dragons (see "Vault Keys,'" page 90). 
Cl8A-Cl8B. CLOSETS 
These closets are filled with stuffed animals and 
spare blankets. 
Cl9. MASTER SITT ING ROOM 
Lady Cassalanter's attendant, Tissina Khyret (see "Head 
Servants," page 116), spends most of her time he re 
when she's not with her mistress. The room is furnished 
for comfort and includes overstuffed chairs, fainting 
couches. and a wine bar. 
C20. LINEN CLOSET 
This closet is packed with folded bedsheets and other 
assorted linens. Two of the downy duvets stacked in this 
room arc rugs of s mothering that attack any creature 
that isn't a Cassalante r or one of their servants. Any 
combat in this room draws the attention of both Laiba 
Rosse (area Cl 7) and Tissina Khyret (area Cl 9). 
Locl<box. Willi fort Crowelle and Tissina Khyrer keep 
their cult regalia (see "Cult of Asmodeus:· page 115) 
in a gold-embellished lockbox hidden under a stack of 
quilts bearing images of flying devils. The box can be 
unlocked with either Willi fort's or Tissina's golden key, 
or by a character who succeeds on a DC 14 Dexterity 
check using thieves' tools. It can also be pried open with 
a successful DC 16 Strength (Athletics) check. 