C21. MASTER BEDROOM 
The door to this room is locked. The room contains the 
following noteworthy featu res: 
The walls are adorned with nine friezes, each one de· 
picting a layer of the ine Hells. 
A four-poster bed draped in deep red curta ins and 
tipped with gold spires stands before an ornate door 
carved from dark hard wood with a gold latch. (This 
door is locked and leads to area C22.) 
A search of the room reveals a golden lockbox tucked 
under the bed. 
Golden Lockbox. Both Victoro and Ammalia keep 
their cult regalia (see "Cult of Asmod eus," page ll5 ) in 
a solid gold lockbox (worth 750 gp) hidden under their 
bed. The box can be unlocked with either Victoro's or 
Ammalia's golden key, or by a character who makes a 
successful DC 14 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. 
It can also be pried open with a successful DC 16 
Strength (Athletics) chec k. 
If the box is opened by any means other than a golden 
key. poison gas sprays out from holes in the underside 
of the lid, filling a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on 
the box. This trap can't be disarmed. Any creature in 
its area must make a DC 13 Constitution saving thr ow, 
taking 22 (4d10) poison damage on a failed save, or half 
as much damage on a successful one. The gas dissi­
pates quickly. 
C22. AMMA LIA
1
S PRIVATE STUDY 
The door to this room is locked. The room contains the 
following feature s: 
• The walls are lined with bookshelves packed with 
thick tomes. 
• A grimoire with a red leather cover sits on a desk 
carved from dark oak. 
• A ladder leads up to a trapdoor in the ceiling. 
Book shelves . The books on the shelves include works 
of fiction and nonfiction. 
Desk. Aside from the grimoire (des cribed below), the 
desk holds an ornate golden candlestick (worth 125 gp), 
a golden inkwell (worth 25 gp), and a feathered quill 
pen (worth 15 gp). The desk drawer contains a wax sea l 
bearin g the Cassalanter crest, Ammalia Cassalanter's 
spellbook (which contains all the spells she has pre­
pared), and ten vials of jet-black poison known as mid­
night tears (see "Poison s" in chapter 8 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide). Ammalia plans to taint the Found ers' 
Day feast with the poison (see "Spec ial Events"). 
Red Grimoire. The tome on the desk, bound in crim ­
son leather, details a diabolical ritual that Ammalia and 
Victoro enacted to first contact the archdev il Asmodeus . 
Opening it reveals nothin g but blank pages with a few 
drops of dry blood on them. If a drop of humanoid 
blood is spilled on any page, lnfernal text on that page 
becomes legible, remaining so until the book is closed. 
The blood remains even after the text vanishes. 
CHAPTER 6 I HELL OF A SUMMER 