Any chara cter with the Ritual Casting feature (or the 
Ritual Caster feat) who spends 24 hours reading the 
book can master the ritual described within. The ritual 
takes 11 minutes to cast and requires incense and a vial 
of unholy water (which are consum ed during the perfor­
mance of the ritual). At the end of the ritual, a proxy of 
Asmodeus appears and grants its summoner the benefit 
of a commune spe ll. The proxy is formed of incense 
smoke and resemb les a pit fiend. A character must finish 
a long rest before performing the ritual again. 
Trapdoor. The trapdoor in the ceiling is the entrance 
to the attic. 
C23. ATTIC LANDIN G 
A thick sce nt of su lfur pervades the attic. The only illu­
mination is a beam of light that sh ines feebly through a 
shuttered window at the west end of the room. 
This attic is soundproof as long as no doors are open. 
Osvaldo's howling can be heard outside the attic only if 
the trapdoor between this room and area C22 and the 
door between this room and area C24 are both open at 
the same time. Additionally. creatu res that have telep­
athy can't communicate telepathically with creatures 
outside the attic unless the doors are open. 
Terenzio and Elzerina have heard howling coming 
from the attic two or three times in their lives and are 
curious about what lurks there. 
C24. O SVALDO'S PRISON 
If Ammali a Cassalanter or Victoro Cassa lanter (see 
appendix B) or both are present, the door to this room 
<.:HAl'TER GI HELL Of A SUMMER 
is unlocked but closed. Otherwise, it's locked shut. and 
Victoro and Ammalia carry the only keys. When the 
chara cters first open the door, read: 
1 
You are greeted with a wave of incoherent howling, as if 
opening the door broke down a dam that had been hold­
ing back a madman's screams. 
l 
Osvaldo Cassa lanter (see appendix B) shrieks and 
moans at all hou rs of the day. He is trying desperately to 
get someone to hear him and come to his rescue. If one 
or both of his parents are here, he spits curses at them 
as they weep before him. 
Guarding the room are two imp s in spide r form. They 
answer to Lord Cassa lanter, and their job is to kill birds , 
rats, and other vermin that find their way into the atti c. 
They attack anyone who tries to free Osvaldo or threat­
ens other family members present. 
The Cassalanter heir apparent is a soulless abomina· 
lion thanks to his parents' thoughtl ess greed. His empty 
she ll of a body has been transform ed into a chain devil 
that his parents have imprisoned using his own chains. 
A 10-foot-diameter pentagram has been burned into the 
floor around him. A detect magic spell reveals a power­
ful aura of abjuration magic emanating from the symbol. 
Osva ldo's chains are wrapped around the beams 
and timbers that frame the room. He can't damage the 
house, nor can he break his own chains. He can only 