• A float topped by a life-size mechanical unicorn ridden 
by a mechanical drow rang e r waving two scimitars 
(when a lever under the float is pulled, the unicorn 
farts a IS-foot cone of confetti, which it can do lwice 
before need ing to be refilled) 
• A float topped with two mechan ical goblins that re­
peate dly punch each othe r when wound up 
A float bea ring a mechan ica l armored knight battling 
a mechanical pit fiend (when wound up, the knighl 
cleaves with its swor d while the devil flaps its win gs) 
Deflated black, blue. green, red, and white dragon 
balloon s (they float magica lly when filled with air, and 
their size is Huge while inflaled) 
An enormous larrasque pupp et for five pupp etee rs 
• Wagon covers decorated with tasse ls and painted with 
colorful patterns and creatures 
• Hors e and ox harnesses, all brightly decorated 
Eyecatcher 's Hold. The aft section of the hold of the 
Eyecatcher is gua rded by four gia nt spiders painted 
in bright colors. These arachnids have been trained by 
jarlaxl e since they were hatchlin gs, and they can pass 
themse lves off as inanimate float decora tions by remain ­
ing perfectly still until they attack. They aren' t hostile 
toward drow, whose lrue nature they sense despite the 
ship's illusion magic. Charact ers who have a pass ive 
Wisdom (Perception) score of 17 or higher realize thal 
the spiders arc a lhreat before the crealures attack. 
All sorts of damaged and unfinis hed attractions are 
sto red here. including the following: 
• A number of broken clockwork monsters 
• Half-completed or broken wagon covers and pupp ets 
• A deflated balloon of an oversized Aumph that has 
a sma ll gash in it (a mending ca ntrip ca n repair 
the damag e) 
• Ao undecorated float, topped with a n unpainted me­
chanical gold dragon made of canvas st retche d over a 
wooden frame 
Rigged with a glass can ister of flammable gas, the me­
chan ica l gold dragon is designed to breathe fire when a 
lever is pulled. Pulling the leve r cracks lhe canister a nd 
sets the dra gon on fire. If the fire brea ks out here and 
isn't extinguished promptly, it spreads lo other parts of 
the hold after 1 min ute. Crew members in othe r parts of 
the ship detect smoke 5 minutes later, by which time the 
hold is a raging inferno . Crew membe rs will focus on 
saving the submarine (if it's still attached) before aban ­
doning ship. 
jl8. CRAFT SUPPLIES 
Eyecatcher and Hellraiser only 
Each of these cabins contains materia ls used to deco ­
rate floats: 
• Glitter, feathers, fabric, paper, scisso rs, sewing nee­
dles , spools of colored thread, and flasks of glue a re 
strewn over small tables. 
• Schematics for parade floats are tacked lo the walls 
alongside various tools. 
jl9. L OWE R CA RGO H OLD 
Heartbreaker only 
Beastly odors fill the hold of the Hcartbreaker, becom­
ing stronger as the charact ers get closer to the creature 
pens (areaj20). The hold is mostly empty on parad e 
days. On other days, it contains disassembled wagons 
(axles, wheels, and cages) that are used to pull exotic 
creat ures through crowded streets. Tools needed to 
assemble and repair the wagons hang from hooks on 
the walls. 
Cargo Elevator . If the ca rgo elevalor platform is low­
ered to this area while creatures a re in the 15-foot-by-
10-foot space where the platform la nds, each of lhos e 
creatures must succee d on a DC J 0 Dexterity saving 
throw or take I J (2dl0) bludgeoning damage and be 
knocked prone and restrained until the platform is 
raised. A creat ure that succeeds on its sav ing throw 
moves to a space of its choice next to the elevator plat­
form without provoking opportunity attacks. 
]20. CREATURE P EN S 
Heartbreaker only 
This section of the hold reeks of ani mal musk and 
waste. When they're not being paraded through city 
streets in cage-wagons , the monst rous attractions of 
the Sea Maidens Faire growl, chorlle, stamp, snort, 
and roar in closed s talls. Two hand lers (commo ners 
with proficiency in Animal Handling) walk from s tall to 
stal l. carryi ng buckets of food and s peaki ng softly to the 
crea tures. 
Each pen is effectively a cell equipped with a s lid-
ing door that ca n be double-latched from the outside. 
A wagon assembled in areaj19 ca n be backed up to 
any pen. With the pen door open, a s uccess ful DC 15 
Wisdom (Anima l Hand ling) chec k then coa xes a caged 
creature into the back of a wagon. This chec k is made 
with advantage if food is given to the creat ure. lf this 
check fails by 5 or more, the creature escapes, pan ics, 
and begins attacking indiscriminately as it tries to win 
its freedom . Any such ruckus alerts the animal handl ers 
or other crew mem bers if they are nea rby. 
The following creatu res are kept in the twelve pens: 
Two apes 
One rhin oceros 
One tiger 
One allosa uru s 
Two panth ers 
Oneo wlbear 
Four giant fire beetle s 
One bippogriff 
One axe beak 
Two deat h dogs 
One gian t vulture 
One polar bear 
The death dogs and the giant vulture a re evil, and the 
giant vullure can understand Common (though it ca n't 
speak) . They seize any chance to escape and revel in the 
suffering of other crea tures. 
j21. HANDLER S' CABIN 
Heartbreaker only 
This cabin contains hamm ocks for the two handler s 
who work in area j20. Lf the creatures have been taken 
on parade, the handlers are asleep in their hammocks. 
CHAPTfR 7 I MAESTRO'S fA ll 