• Jarlaxle wants the Lords' Alliance to recognize his 
city, Luskan, as a new member, and he wants to push 
Neverwinter out of the alliance. 
• A year ago. the Sea Maidens Faire visited the island 
nation ofLantan, whereJarlaxle obtained a Lantanese 
submarine and several clockwork servants . 
Secr et Door. A secret door leading to a walk-in closet 
(areaJ28) can be found with a successful DC 15 Wis­
dom (Perception) check. 
Treas ure. Margo's lyre is worth 30 gp. An unlocked 
chest at the foot of the bed holds four sets of costume 
clothing and a jewelry box containing six gold bracelets 
(worth 25 gp each), two diamond rings (worth 250 gp 
each). and a pearl necklace (worth 500 gp). 
J30. ZARooz ZoRo's CABIN 
Eyecatcher only 
The doors to this cabin are locked. If anyone other than 
Jarlaxle turns the handle of either door, a magic mouth 
spell activates and shouts, "By Lolth's teeth, have you no 
manners?'' The sound is loud enough to be heard by Jar­
laxle (if he is in area J29), and he comes to investigate. 
The room contains the following features: 
• The sweet smell of lavender permeates the cabin. (The 
scent is created by magic and can be dispelled.) 
• A oimbl ewri ght (see appendix B) stands in a small al­
cove next to a chess table. An empty wine bottle on the 
table is labeled "One-Eyed Jax" in Common . 
Behind a purple curtain, a bed is covered by a soft 
blue blanket and matching pillows. Next to the bed is 
a wooden chest with clawed feet. 
Nimbl ewrigh t. The nimblewright servesjarlaxle as 
a servant, and it obeys its master's commands without 
question. Absent orders, it attacks anyone who discovers 
the trapdoor in the floor (see below). 
Secre t Doors . Any character who searches the cabin 
and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check 
finds a secret door leading to a walk-in closet (areaj28) 
and a secret trapdoor in the floor. 
The trapdoor has an arcane loci<. spe ll cast on it, but 
rapping on it three times suppresses the spell for l min­
ute. Alternatively, the trapdoor can be forced open with 
a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check. 
Below the trapdoor, a metal ladder descends to the 
bottom of a 10-foot-long, 3-foot-diameter steel tube 
with a circular metal hatch at the bottom. The hatch is 
opened by turning its valve wheel, which grants access 
co area Ul on the Scarlet Marpenoth. This area is magi­
cally pressurized to keep water from entering the ship if 
the hatch is opened while the submarine isn't docked. 
Treas ure. The chess set features jade pieces shaped 
like drow and is worth 2,500 gp. 
j3l. TRAINING AREA 
Eyecatcher only 
jarlaxl e trains here regularly. The space contains the 
following features: 
Ropes are strung throughout the area like webs. 
• Four rapiers hang from a wooden rack attached 
to the mast. 
Five beat-up mannequins made of wood, straw, and 
canvas stand about the room. Each holds a wooden 
sword and a wooden shield . 
A dartboard mounted on one wall has a shiny dagger 
sticking into it. 
Attack Mann equin s. As a bonus action, Jarlaxle can 
command the five magic mannequins to animate and 
attack a single target of his choice. Each mannequin has 
the statistics of anim ated armor. Mannequins that take 
damage become inanimate untilJarlaxle uses another 
bonus action to reanimate them. A mannequin targeted 
by a mending cantrip regains 1 hit point. 
Dagger. The dagger in the dartboard is a +1 dagger. 
Ropes. The ropes make all parts of this area difficult 
terrain. As part of its movement, a creature can maneu­
ver around the ropes with a successful DC 15 Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) check, negating the ropes' effect for that 
creature until the end of its turn. 
J32. j ARLAXLE'S SAUNA 
Eyecatcher only 
The door to this room is closed with an exte rior hook 
latch. When the door is opened, clouds of steam bil­
low out from the area beyond. This steam is created 
magically and can be dispelled with a success ful cast­
ing of dispel magic (DC 14). The room holds only a 
wooden bench. 
Steam. The steam has no adverse effect for the first 
hour. For eac h additional hour spent in this room, a 
creature must s ucceed on a DC 11 Constitution saving 
throw or gain one level of exhaustion. Creatures im­
mune to fire damage automatically succeed on this save. 
SCARLET MARPENOTH 
Jarlaxlc's submarine, the Scarlet Marpenoth, is mounted 
underneath the Eyecatcher and can be seen only by 
creatures under the water. Jarlaxle retreats here if the 
Eyecatcher comes under attack. 
DROW CREW 
The magic that conceals the true appearance of drow 
aboardjarlaxle's ships doesn't exte nd to the Scarlet 
Marpenoth. Characters who encounter drow while 
sneaking around the submarine are questioned. If the 
drow don't get the answers they want, they attack. Any 
nearby drow who hear a fight break out will investigate 
and team up to repel boarders. 
GNOME E NGINEERS 
Rock gnome engineers maintain and operate the Scarlet 
Marpenoth. These gnomes are appr enti ce wizards (see 
appendix B), with these changes: 
The gnomes are neutral good. 
They are Small and have 7 (2d6) hit points each. 
• They have these racial traits: They have advantage on 
all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws 
against magic. Their walking speed is 25 feet. They 
have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. They spea k 
Common and Gnomish. 
CHAPTER 7 I MAESTRO'S FA Li 