accommodate a Small or Medium creature. The chair is 
situated before a panel of dials, levers, and buttons. Ter­
varound and Anverth stand by the back wall, monitoring 
gauges and performing system checks. A copper speak­
ing tube enables them to communicate with Breena 
Baffiestone in the engine room (area U2). 
The gnomes can pilot the Scarlet Marpenoth with­
out needing to make a check. Any other creature must 
succeed on a DC 20 Jntelligcnce check to figure out the 
controls. From the control panel, the pilot can detach 
the submarine from the Eyecatcher, as well as cont rol 
its speed, direction, and depth. The pilot can electrify 
the outer hull for 1 minute, after which the system re­
quires 1 hour to recharge. Any creature that comes into 
contact with or starts its turn in contact with the outer 
hull when it's electrified must make a DC 15 Dexterity 
check, taking 22 {4dl0) lightning damage on a failed 
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A 
creature wearing metal armor has disadvantage on this 
saving throw. 
U8. ENGINEERS' STATEROOMS 
Each of these four compartments contains an off-duty 
rock gnome engineer sleeping in a small hammock, 
beneath which are two steel footlockers. The four rock 
gnomes are named Cockaby Fapplestamp, Ellywick 
Fiddlefen, Gcrbo Reese, and Zaffrab Horcusporcus. 
Footlockers. Each footlocker belongs to a partic­
ular gnome engineer stationed aboard the Scarlet 
Marpenoth. Both contain folded clothes sized for a 
CH APTER 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 
gnome. One of them also holds a set of grease-stained 
overalls and a set of tinker's tools that belong to the 
gnome asleep in the bunk. There is a 25 percent chance 
that a footlocker also contains a clockwork toy, a fire 
starter, or a music box (as described in the "Rock 
Gnome" section in chapter 2 of the Player's Handbook). 
U9. DIN !NG ROOM 
This room has the following features: 
• A walnut dining table is surrounded by eight padded 
swivel chairs. The height of each chair can be adjusted 
to accommodate a Small or Medium creature. 
• Soft, ambient music fills the room, created by magic. 
UlO. GALLEY 
This room has the following features: 
• An iron stove sits in one corner. 
In the opposite corner stands a steel food preparation 
table with utensils dangling above it. Built into the ta­
ble is a lidded steel box attached to a pedal on the floor 
below. When the pedal is pumped, water and moving 
brushes scrub dishes and utensils that have been 
placed into the box. 
A cart holds cutlery and dishes. 
Ull. PANTRY 
Metal shelves lining the walls hold fresh fruit, vegeta­
bles, casks of wine, and meat. Two steel barrels (one 
containing ale, the other drinking water) stand beneath 
the shelves. 