USING MAGIC TO B YPASS THE FORCE FIELD 
Characters can use magic such as a dimension door or 
misty step spell to teleport from one side of the force 
field to the other. A disintegrate spe ll or a successful dis­
pel magic (DC 19) spell cast at the field creates a 10-foot­
square opening that lasts for 1 minute. 
D ESTROYING THE FORCE FIELD 
A magic rune in area K18 generates the force field. De­
stroying that rune ends the effect. 
KOL AT T OWERS FEATU RES 
The following general features apply to Kolat Towers: 
• Kolat Towers is a multistory structure, with each 
level standing 20 feet higher than the one below it. 
Its rooms have 15-foot-high ceilings, with 7-foot-high 
doorways connecting them. 
• Climbing the outside walls without equipment re­
quires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. 
Each of the doors in the towers , as well as the door in 
the outer wall, is made of iron-bound oak and has AC 
16, 27 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic 
damage. rf a door is locked, it ca n be picked by a char­
acter who makes a successful DC 15 Dexteriry check 
using thieves' tools, or it can be forced open with a 
s uccessfu l DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check . Man­
shoon, Mana fret Cherryport, and Havia Quickknife 
have keys to the locked doors. 
• Windows have leaded frames and dirty glass panes. 
They are latched from within and swing inward on 
iron hinges. A success ful DC 11 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools opens a window from the outside. 
• Unless oth erwise noted, all areas are brightly lit by 
continual flame spells cast on wall sconces. 
• Some of the sta ircases in Kolat Towers are invisible. 
They are revealed by a see invisibility spell or similar 
magic. A creature traversing stairs it can't see can 
move on the ste ps at half speed without any problem. 
A creature that moves any faster than half speed must 
succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or 
slip, tumble down the stairs, and fall prone at the bot­
tom of them. 
A REAS OF KOL AT TOWE RS 
The following encounter locations are keyed to map 8.1. 
Kl . STO REROOM 
The outer door is locked from the inside, and the room 
has neither heat nor light sources. Crates stacked 
around the room are packed with meat, and bear the 
seal of the Fellowship of Salters, Packers, and joiner s. 
K2. D INING ROOM 
This room contains the following features: 
Three Zhcnt s in black armor sit around a stone dining 
table, playing Three -Dragon Ante (a card game). The 
table is set with silver. 
• Eight moth-eate n banners hang from the waJls. Each 
bears an arcane sigil that repr ese nts a different one of 
the eight schools of magic. 
Zhents. The card players are Sidra Romeir (LE fe­
male Calishite human vete ran) and two subordinates 
(LE male Tethyrian human thu gs). Since the force field 
around Kolat Towers keeps out riffraff, Sidra assumes 
the characters are guests of Manshoon arriving for 
a clandestine meeting. If the characters give her no 
reason to believe otherwise, s he and her thugs escort 
them wherever they ask to go. If it becomes clear that 
the characters don't belong in the towers , Sidra and her 
thugs attack. Combat in this area draws the attention of 
Manafret Cherryport in area K3, who investigates. 
Sidra wears a teleporter ring (see "Teleporter 
Rings," page 157). 
Treasure. Silverware on the table is worth 100 gp. 
K3. KITCHEN 
Mouthwatering scents fill this room , which contains the 
following features: 
• If he hasn't already been drawn elsewhere, a portly 
halfling stands atop a stool and cooks at an iron stove. 
• A green, ghostly hand floats above a trellis table, hold­
ing a knife and cutting carrots and celery. 
• A staircase curves up one wall, leading to area K7. 
Zhent Cook. The halfiing, Manafret Cherryport, is 
one of Manshoon's lieutenants. He loves to cook, and 
uses his mage hand cantrip to cut vegetables. He as­
sumes the characters are intruders unless convinced 
otherwise. Any ability check to do so is made with dis­
advantage, since Manafret knows that Manshoon would 
have informed him if guests were expected. If the mage 
suspects the characters are intrud ers, he surreptitiously 
pours a vial of assassin's blood (see "Poisons" in chapter 
8 of the Dungeon Master's Guide) into lhe stew before 
asking them to taste it and give him an honest critique. 
He then cries out to the guards in area K2 and attacks. 
Combat in this area draws the atte ntion of the Zhents in 
areas K2 and K7, who inves tigate. 
Mana fret is a lightfoot halHing mage, with 
these changes: 
• Manafret is neutral evil and has 31 (9d6) hit points. 
• He has these racial traits: He is Sma ll, and his walk­
ing speed is 25 feet. He can move through the space 
of a Medium or larger creature. He has advantage on 
saving throw s against being frightened. He speaks 
Common and Halfling. 
KOLAT TOWERS LORE 
With a successful DC l S Intelligence (History) check, a 
character can recall the following information about Kolat 
Towers. An NPC familiar with Waterdeep's history, such as 
Mirt or Volo, can also provide this information. 
• Kolat Towers once belonged to two eccentric brothers, 
Duhlark and Alcedor Kolat. Both were wizards. 
• Over time, the brothers discovered new ways to harness 
magic, but Ouhlark became paranoid that others might 
steal their secrets. He encased Kolat Towers in a magical 
force field. 
• Ouhlark's paranoia continued to grow, until he sus­
pected Alcedor of selling their secrets. Alcedor left the 
towers, never to be heard from again, and Duhlark be· 
came a recluse who died in his own fortress. 
CHAP1ER 8 I WINTER WIZARDRY 