persists, a creature in the hall must repeat the saving 
throw at the start of each of its turns. The golem is im­
mune ro the poison gas. 
One-Way S ecret Door. A character who makes a suc­
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the 
secret door that leads to area K19. This door opens nor­
mally only from inside area Kl9, and only a knock spell 
or similar magic can force it open from this side. 
Kl8. ARCANE RUNE 
This unlit hall is choked with dust and cobwebs . It con­
tains the following features: 
• An elaborate rune is inscribed on the back wall at the 
southern most end of the hall. (The rune isn't visible 
from the doorway to area Kl 7.) 
• A secret door is set into the innermost wall. 
Arcane Rune. A detect magic spell or similar magic 
reveals a powerful aura of conjuration magic around the 
rune. A successful DC 15 intelligence (Arcana) check 
confirms that this rune sustains the force field around 
Kolat Towers, and that the rune can be destroyed. It has 
AC 10, 22 hit points, and immunity to poison and psy­
chic damage. The rune can't be dispelled normally. but 
each successful dispel magic cast on it (DC 19) deals 16 
(3d10) force damage to it. 
The first time damage is dealt to the rune, a red slaad 
magically springs forth from it and attacks aU creatures 
in the hallway. 
When the rune is destroyed, the force field around 
Kolat Towers disappears. 
Secre t Door. A character who makes a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the secret door 
that leads to area K 19. 
Kl9. DUHLARK
1
S BEDROOM 
This room is accessible through either of the secret 
doors that lead to areas Kl7 and Kl8. It conta ins the 
following features: 
A Oameskull bobs in the middle of the room, which is 
choked with dust and cobwebs. 
• An oval canopy bed veiled in cobwebs sits across from 
two narrow bookshelves. 
• The room smells like a tomb. 
Manshoon found Duhlark Kolat's skeletal remains in 
the bed and transformed his skull into a flameskull. He 
left the rest of the bones alone, hidden behind cobwebs. 
The fiameskull attacks anyone other than Manshoon 
who confronts it. shoutin g, "Get out of my house!" be­
tween casting spells and throwing off fire rays. 
Bookshelves. Manshoon removed any tomes of 
value from the bedroom, leaving noticeable gaps on the 
shelves between mundane books on a variety of eso­
teric subjects. 
Among the volumes on one shelf is a false book titled 
The Man from Damara- a wooden block painted to re­
semble a book, which is wired to a secret compa rtment 
in the base of the shelf. A character can detect the shelf 
and discern how to open it with a successful DC 15 Wis­
dom (Perception) check. Tugging on the book causes the 
C ll APTER 8 I WI NTER WIZARDRY 
compartment to pop open, revealing Duhlark's wand of 
binding hidden inside. 
K20. ALCEDOR'S PRIVATE LIBRARY 
This room has the following features: 
• A tall oak booksh elf contains a few scattered books 
(all mundane and worthless) , but is mostly bare. 
Above the bookshelf hangs a beautifully crafted sign 
that reads "Alcedor" in Common. 
• A staircase descends 20 feet to area KlO. 
K21. DUHLARK'S PRIVATE LIBRARY 
This room has the following features: 
• A tall oak bookshelf holds a few dozen books. Above 
the bookshelf hangs a beautifully crafted sign that 
reads "Duh lark" in Common. 
• A staircase ascends 20 feet to area K22. 
Bookshelf. The bookshe lf holds thirty books in total. 
If any of them are disturbed, they fly off the shelves and 
form a swarm that attacks all creatures in the room. 
The book collection has the statistics of a swarm of 
bats, with these changes: 
The books lack the Echolocation and Keen Hear­
ing traits. 
Replace the swarm's Bites attack option with a Slam 
attack option that deals the same amount of bludgeon­
ing damage. 
If there are no creatures to attack on its turn , the book 
collection returns to the bookshel f. The books are other­
wise nonmagical and cover a wide array of subjects. 
K22. TELEPORTATION CIRCLE 
A staircase rising from area K21 leads to this highest 
chamber of the outer tower. It contains the follow­
ing features: 
• A spectator floats in the middle of the room, and four 
flying snak es flutter above the rafters. 
• Runes inscribed on the floor form a large, faintly glow­
ing circle. 
• Five wooden treasure chests with sturdy padlocks rest 
against the walls. 
Guardian s. The spectator guards the treasure chests 
and attacks intruders who aren't being esco rted by Man­
shoon or one of his lieutenants. The flying snakes join 
tbe battle, fighting as allies of the spectator. 
Teleportation Circle. The teleportation circle func­
tions as described under the spell of the same name in 
the Player's Handbook. Additionally, a creature wearing 
a teleporter ring (see "Teleporter Rings," page 157) 
can use this circle to access the teleportation circle in 
Manshoon's sanctum (area El}. A teleporter ring that is 
brought within 5 feet of the circle begins to hum softly. 
Treasure Chests. The padlocks on the chests are 
illusory but feel real to the touch. A detect magic spell or 
similar magic reveals an aura of illusion magic around 
each one. Attempts to pick or break the locks fail, but a 
knock spell or similar magic causes a lock to open . 
Chest l has the image of an anvil carved into its lid. It 
contains a set of smith's tools (worth 20 gp). 