Chest 2 has iron bands and contains a set of painter's 
supplies (worth 10 gp), as weU as three small pots of col­
ored paint (blue, red, and yellow). 
Chest 3 has tiny clawed feet and contains six blank 
spellbooks with leather covers (worth 50 gp each). 
Chest 4 has a Bat lid with a city scene painted on it. 
It contains a scholar's pack (worth 40 gp) and a book 
of Dwarvish phrases. A character who doesn't speak 
Dwarvish can use the book to communicate on a rudi­
mentary level with friendly dwarves. 
Chest 5 is inlaid with silver and topped with a silver 
statuette of a rearing hippogriff (worth 25 gp). Inside is a 
wooden rack that holds eight glass vials-six containing 
potions of healing and two containing individual doses 
of essence of ether (see "Poisons" in chapter 8 of the 
Dungeon Master's Guide). The poison can be identified 
with a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Nature) check. 
EXTRADIMENS IONAL 
SANCTUM 
Manshoon's extradimensional sanctum exists in a finite 
demiplane. Created by the original Maoshoon, i t is 
known to the wizard's clones, and it currently serves as 
the lair of the clone described in this adventure. 
Outside Manshoon's sanctum, the demiplane is a vast 
void filled with swirling purple mist. Any creature that 
enters this mist is teleported to area El and must make 
a DC 18 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (4dl0) 
force damage on a failed save, or half as much damage 
on a successful one. 
There are no cardinal directions in this extrad imen­
sional space; compasses spin futilely in the absence of 
north, south, east, and west. 
SANCTUM FEATURES 
These features apply to all areas in the extradimen­
sional sanctum: 
• Rooms have 10-foot-high ceilings, with 8-foot-high 
passages and 7-foot-high doorways connecting them. 
The walls, floors, and ceilings throughout are made of 
seamless alabaster. 
• Doors are made of iron and have AC 19, 27 hit points, 
and immunity to poison and psychic damage. A locked 
door can be picked by someone who makes a suc­
cessful DC 17 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, or 
can be forced open with a successfu l DC 25 Strength 
(Athletics) check. As an action, Manshoon or his 
simulacrum can lock or unlock any door in the sanc­
tum by touch. 
• Except where noted, areas of the sanctum are brightly 
lit by continua/ flame spells cast on wall sconces. 
A REAS OFTHESANCTUM 
The following locations are keyed to map 8.2. 
El. ARRIVAL POINT 
This room is the extradimensional sanctum's anchor to 
the Material Plane, and one can teleport to this chamber 
TELEPORT ER RINGS 
To access Manshoon's extraplanar sanctum, one needs a 
teleporier ring: a brass signet ring bearing a stylized M, and 
which emanates an aura of conjuration magic when tar­
geted by a detect magic spell or similar magic. Manshoon 
gives these rings to his most trusted servants . 
As an action, a creature wearing a teleporier ring can ac­
tivate the teleportation circle either in area K22 or area El, 
teleporting itse lf and up to six other willing creatures from 
one circle to the other. 
from other places on the Material Plane. The room has 
the following features: 
• A teleportation circle is inscribed on the alabaster 
floor here. Characters teleported to this area from 
area K22 appear within the circle . 
• The ceiling and three of the walls are made of 6-inch­
tbick sheets of transparent glass, through which the 
swirling purple mist that fills the demiplane can be 
seen. The fourth wall is made of alabaster and has a 
locked iron door set into it (leading to area E2). 
• A black-robed female human with a bald, scarred head 
watches this room through a glass window set into the 
wall of another room (area E3). 
Dreadful Hos t. The figure watching through the win­
dow is Kaevja Cynavern (see area E3), and she can see 
thro ugh the purple mist between the two rooms easily 
enough . She uses a sending spell to contact Manshoon 
as soon as the characters arrive. Manshoon sends his 
simu lacrum (see appendix B) to unlock the door to area 
E2 and greet the new arrivals. It takes 1 minute for the 
simulacrum to arrive (from area E7), during which time 
Kaevja uses another sending spell to inform a random 
character that "Your gracious host is on the way, and 
looks forward to meeting you." 
When the simulacrum arrives, it passes itself off as 
Manshoon as it welcomes the characters to its extradi­
mensional sanctum . It offers a guided tour, gesturing for 
the characters to enter area E2 ahead of it. If they com­
ply, it triggers the alarm in area E2 and attacks. 
Glass Walls. Each 5-foot section of glass wall has AC 
13, 30 hit points, and immunity to acid, poison, and psy­
chic damage. The purple mist that fills the demiplane 
doesn't enter this area even if the glass is shattered. 
Teleportati on Circle. The teleportation circle func­
tions as described under the spell of the same name in 
the Player's Handbook. Additionally, a creature wearing 
a teleporter ring (see "Teleporter Rings," page 157) can 
use this circle to access the teleportation circle in Kolat 
Towers (area K22). A te/eporter ring that is brought 
within 5 feet of the circle begins to hum softly. 
E2.FOYER 
The door to area El is locked. All other doors leading 
from this room are unlocked. This foyer bas the follow­
ing features: 
• Set into the alabaster floor is a large symbol in black 
marble, depicting a winged snake biting a coin. Char­
acters recognize this as the symbol of the Zhentarim . 
(The coin conceals an alarm mechanism.) 
CHAPTER 8 I WINTER WIZARDRY 