One square = 5 feet 
MAP a.2: ExTRAotMENs•oNAL SANCTUM 
• Hanging on the walls are twelve metal masks bear ing 
human- like visages . 
Alarm Mechanism . The I-foot-diameter, disk-shaped 
tile that serves as the coin in the Zhentarim symbol is 
actually a pressure plate. When pressed or stepped on, 
it sounds a magic gong that can be heard throughout 
the sanctum. The alarm can be disabled by someone 
who makes a successful DC 20 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools, but it triggers accidentally if the check 
fails by 5 or more. The alarm brings the following de­
fenders, who attack all intruders in the room: 
• Kaevja Cynavern (see area E3) 
The Manshoon simulacrum (see area E7) 
• Vevette Blackwater and Agorn Fuoco (see area E8) 
Ravia Quickknife and Mookie Plush (see area £10) 
If the characters manage to overcome all these foes, 
they are free to explore the sanctum. Manshoon awaits 
them in area El2. 
Cha racte rs who are reduced to 0 hit points by Man­
shoon's defenders are knocked unconscious . If the 
entire party is defeated , the unconscious characters are 
stripped of their spell books and magic items (including 
any teleporter rings they obtained in Kolat Towers). 
They then awaken in a back alley of Waterdeep with 1 
hit point each . Jf the characters return to Kolat Towers, 
they find the place cleared out and the teleportation cir­
cle in a rea K22 permanently dispelled. 
Masks ofManshoon . The masks belong to Manshoon 
and have been worn by hiro in the past. A detect magic 
CHAPTER 8 I WINTP.R WIZARDRY 
spell or simila r magic reveals an aura of evocation 
magic around each one. Any creature that dons a mask 
takes 9 (2d8) lightning damage. Once this effect trig­
gers, the mask becomes nonmagi cal and harmless. 
E3. GUARD STATION 
A 5-foot-square window in this area looks out toward 
area El. Unless she has been drawn elsewhere , Kaevja 
Cynavern stands watch in front of the window. 
Kaevja was a Red Wizard of Thay until she saw an 
opportunity to study magic under Manshoon. Before 
he accepted her, Manshoon forced her to remove her 
distinctive Thayan head tattoos and to trade in her Red 
Wizard robes for black ones. 
Kaevja Cynavern is a female Mulan human mage. 
with these changes: 
• Kaevja is Lawful evil. She knows Common, Draconic, 
Dwarvish., and Elvish. 
• She has the sending spe ll prepared instead of the fly 
spell , and she carries a yellow elemental gem. 
In battle, Kaevja breaks the elemental gem, summon ­
ing an earth elemental and commanding it to attack 
her enemies. 
E4. PANTRY 
This room contains the following features: 
• Floor-to-ceiling shelves are stuffed with breads, 
cheeses, dried meats, nuts, and a few baskets of 
fresh produce. 