• Two barrels labeled ~WATER" and two labeled ~ALE" 
are crammed into a comer. 
E5 . LABORATORY 
This room contains the following features: 
• Beakers, bottles, and test tubes are set on a marble ta­
ble in the middle of this room, next Lo a basin of water. 
One staircase descends 10 feet to area E2. and an­
other ascends 10 feet to area E6. 
Urstul Floxin . If he survived earlier encounters with 
the cha racters, Urstul Floxin (see appendix B) stands 
at the table, dourly scrubbing lab equipment. He is 
being punished for allowing the Stone ofGolorr to 
slip through his fingers (during the events of chapter 
3). Nevertheless, he remains loyal to Manshoon. If he 
is confronted, Urstul feigns anger toward the wizard 
and offers to help the characters defeat him, but this 
ruse can be seen through by someone who makes a 
successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check. Given the 
chance, Urstul leads the characters to Manshoon, then 
attacks them to prove his unwavering loyalty in front of 
his master. 
If the characters fall for Urstul's ruse but nevertheless 
demand that he relinquish his weapons in order to 
accompany them, the Zhent assassin laughs at them 
and attacks. 
E6. BINDING CHAMBER 
A circle inscribed with runes is carved into the alabaster 
Boor of this room. It radiates an aura of abjuration magic 
when targeted by a detect magic spell or similar magic. 
Manshoon uses the circle to bind extraplanar crea­
tures . When a celestial, an elemental, a fey, or a fiend 
is summoned inside the circle, it can't voluntarily leave 
that area until its summoner uses an action to suppress 
the circle's magic for 1 minute. The magic is also sup­
pressed if any part of the circle falls within an antimagi c 
field, or if dispel magic (DC 17) is successfully cast on it. 
E7. MANSHOON
1
S SIMULACRUM 
This room is extremely cold and contains the follow­
ing features: 
Frigid air blows into the room through small vents 
in the Boor. In the middle of the room is an open sar­
cophagus carved from ice, which contains a humanoid 
figure made of snow. 
• The back wall is made of 5-inch-thick curved glass. 
Frost covers the glass, partia lly blotting out the swirl­
ing purple mist of the demiplane beyond. 
Simula crum. If it hasn't been summoned elsewhere, 
Manshoon's simulacrum (see appendix B) is standing 
before the glass wall with its back to the door. The 
simulacrum resembles a robed wizard with long black 
hair, pale skin, and an articulated metal left hand and 
forearm. Its face is concealed behind a steel mas k that 
bears a smiling visage. The simulacrum attacks anyone 
it doesn't recognize. 
Extrem e Cold. The rules for extreme cold (see chap­
ter 5 of the Dungeon Master's Guide) apply in this room. 
Glass Wall. Each 5-foot section of glass wall has AC 
13, 30 hit points, and immunity to acid, poison, and psy-
chic damage. The purple mist that fills the demiplane 
doesn't enter this room even if the glass is shattered. 
Simula crum Sarcophagus . This ice-carved container 
weighs 1.000 pounds and begins to melt if taken out of 
the room. The snow figure in the sarcophagus is part 
of the material component of a simulacrum spell. Man­
shoon can use it LO create a new simulacrum if his cur­
rent one is destroyed. 
E8. READING ROOM 
This room contains the following features: 
• Delightfu l warmth radiates from a brazier of green 
Bame encircled by eight cushioned chairs . 
• Unless they've been drawn elsewhere, two of Man­
shoon's lieutenants are here: Yevette Blackwater (CE 
female Tethyrian human s washbu ckler : see appendix 
B) and Agoro Fuoco (NE male Turami human bard ; 
see appendix B). Yevette is relaxing in a chafr, while 
Agoro strums a lyre. 
An alabaster staircase ascends 10 feet to area E9. 
Zhents. Yevette and Agoro are two of Manshoon's 
most trusted followers. Yevette commands the wizard's 
forces against the Xanathar Guild, while Agom com­
mands those who oppose the Zhents that aren 't loyal to 
Manshoon. At the moment, they are resting in the sanc­
tum while awaiting orders from Mans hoon. 
Green Flame Brazier. A detect magic spell or si m­
ilar magic reveals an aura of evocation magic around 
the brazier. The brazier casts a fireball spell (save DC 
15) centered on itself whenever a creature in the room 
speaks the words "green ftame" aloud. Once the brazier 
has cast this spell, it can't do so again for another 24 
hours . Agoro knows this feature of the brazier, and he 
uses it in combat if the situation is desperate. 
E9. LIBRARY 
Alabaster shelves line every wall and jut out into the 
cen ter of this room, all of them packed with books that 
deal with subjects of interest to wizards. Manshoon has 
amassed a sizable collection, including ten rare volumes 
he removed from Duhlark Kolat's collection . 
Treasure. Each rare book is worth 50 gp, and the en­
tire collection is worth 5,000 gp. 
ElO. AUDIENCE CHAMBER 
High-ranking Zhents who desire an audience with 
Manshoon come here. The room contains the follow­
ing features: 
The area is split into two levels, with alabaster steps 
climbing 3 feet to a smaller raised platform overlook­
ing the larger area. The platform is bare except for 
three golden banners hanging on the back wall, each 
displaying the symbol of the Zhentarim-a black, 
winged snake biting a coin. 
• The lower part of the room contains a black marble 
table surrounded by high-backed wooden cha irs. The 
table stands out in stark contrast against the alabaster 
walls and floor. 
• If they haven't been drawn elsewhere, two of Man­
shoon's followers are sparring and engaged in mock 
fisticuffs atop the table. 
CHAPTER 8 I WINT£R WIZARDRY 