Zhents. Two female lightfoot halflings-Havia Quick­
knife and Mookie Plush - believe that Manshoon is the 
rightfu l leader of the Zhentarim. They serve him fear ­
less ly, and will sacr ifice themsel ves to ensure that his 
plans come to fruition. They are martial arts adepts 
(see appendix B), with these changes: 
• Havia and Mookie are lawful evil. 
• They have 49 (lld6 + 11) hit points eac h. 
They have these racial traits: They are Small, and 
their walkin g speed is 25 feet. They can move through 
the space of a Medium or larger creature. They have 
advantage on saving throws against being frightened. 
They speak Common and Halfling. 
Havia and Mookie each wear a teleporter ring (see 
"Teleporter Rings ," page 157). 
Ell . ZHENT QUARTERS 
This room conta ins the following features: 
• Pressed against the walls of th is room are five wooden 
beds (three sized for humans, two for halflings). 
• Next to each bed is a wooden chest. 
• An alabaster sta ircase descends to area El2. 
Kaevja Cynavero, Yevette Blackwater, Agoro Fuoco, 
Havia Quickknif e, and Mookie Plush all sleep here. 
Treasur e. In addition to folded clothes and worthless 
personal effects, each of the chests holds treasure. 
Kaevja's chest contain s a gold amu let inset with a red 
crystal rune (worth 250 gp). A success ful DC 15 Intelli­
gence (Arcana) check reveals that the rune is a symbol 
of evocat ion, though the amulet is nonmagical. 
Yevette's chest has thre e potions of healing. 
Agorn's chest contains a bundle of love letters from 
someone named Tamzyn. Hidden in one of the enve­
lopes is an elega nt platinum necklace (worth 250 gp), 
featu ring a tiny ca meo containing a sketched portrait of 
a beautiful Tura mi woman. 
In Havia's chest is a golden comb shap ed like a styl­
ized dragon with tiny rubies for eyes (worth 250 gp). 
Mookie's chest conta ins a t iny ha lfling doll. Stuffed 
inside the doll is a pouch that holds five 100 gp pear ls. 
El2. MANSHOON'S QUARTERS 
No one aside from Manshoon is allowed down here. The 
alabaster stai rs that lead to this room desce nd 10 feet 
farther to area El3. 
This room contains the following features: 
• Across from the stairs stands a large bed with pur­
ple sheets. Sitting on the edge of the bed is a hand­
some young male human in elegant robes. Long 
black hair partially conceals his angelic face as he 
attaches a metal appendage to the withered stump of 
his left arm. 
The only other piece of furniture is a table with legs 
carved to resemb le winged serpent s. Displayed on the 
table is a meta l mask with an intimidating, tyranni­
ca l visage. 
The handsom e young figure is Manshoon (see appen­
dix B), who is much older than he looks. 
CHAPTER 8 I WINTER WIZARDRY 
This version of Manshoon is n't spo iling for a fight. 
He com mends the characte rs for making it this far a nd 
shows no concern for the Zhents they defeated to reac h 
him, since he considers all his followers expendabl e. 
The cha racte rs' best chance of survival is to convince 
Manshoon that they can be cowed or bribed into work­
ing for him. Weary of his conflict with the Xanathar 
Guild, Manshoon suggests that the characters prove 
their usefulness to him by huntin g down and killin g 
Xanathar in its lair (see cha pter 5). Manshoon also 
demands that they keep his prese nce in Waterdeep 
a secret for now, saying that he will reward them for 
their discretion "when the time comes ." In exchange , 
he allows the characters to return to Waterdeep and 
promises them positions of power in his organization 
once Xanathar's death is confirmed. He has no intention 
of making good on this promis e, but refus ing to work 
for him puts the chara cters in a tight spot, s ince the evil 
archwiza rd can't risk expos ure. 
If a fight breaks out, Manshooo grabs his staff of 
power(which he hides unde r the bed) and holds his 
ground . For more information on how to play Man­
shoon, see "Facing Manshoon" at the beginning of 
this chapter . 
Tyrant's Mask. Th e mask on the table is nonma gical, 
but Manshoon likes to put it on before meeting with bis 
followers. 
E13. MANSHOON'S STUDY 
The alabast er stairs end here. The room contains the 
following features: 
• A plush lavender carpet covers the floor. 
• In one far corner of the room , a low table is set 
betwee n two purple couches. The table has a thin 
drawer built into it. 
In the other far corne r, Manshoon 's spe llbook rests 
atop a black marbl e lecte rn protected by an invisible 
helmed horror. The construct attacks anyone other 
than Mans hoon who disturb s the book (becom ing visi­
ble as it does so). It obeys Manshoon's commands if he 
is present, and it fights until destroyed. 
Table. The table's drawer has an arcane lock spe ll 
cast on it. The spell can be bypas sed by someone 
who makes a success ful DC 25 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools, or with a knock spell or simi lar magic. 
The drawer can also be forced open with a success-
ful DC 21 Strength (Athletics) check. Inside is a 
leather-bo und ledge r that provides a paper trai l implicat­
ing Manshoon in two blackmail schemes . An hour spe nt 
study ing the ledger uncovers the following informa tion: 
• Corylus Thaon, a racist Waterdavian noble, is paying 
the Zhentarim not to revea l that he hired Zhent thugs 
to assault nonhumans. 
• Jelenn Urmbrusk, a Waterdavian noble, rece ives regu­
lar payments from the Zbentarim to offset monies he 
loses in bad investments. 
The ledger doesn't reveal that Corylus Thann and 
jelenn Urmbrusk are Masked Lord s, or that Manshoon 's 
blackmail of them also forces them to use their infiu-