ence to cover up or dismiss crimes perpetrated by Man­
shoon's forces in Waterdeep. Jf the authorities obtain the 
ledger, they round up anyone suspected of having ties 
to Manshoon or the Zhentarim. which disrupts the wiz­
ard's operation (see "Disrupting Manshoon's Operation ," 
page 147). Surprisingly, neither Corylus nor Jelenn is 
arrested or even questioned. 
Slipped into the ledger is a piece of paper with a list 
of names in Man shoon's handw riting. Manshoon keeps 
this list of Masked Lord s whose identities he knows, 
with check mark s indicating the ones he's blackmailing: 
Mirt 
Corylus Thann ../ 
Thardouk Starbuckler 
jelenn Urmbrusk ../ 
Dorgar Adarbrent 
Man sh oon's Spe/Jbool<. This spellbook weighs 20 
pounds and is covered in beholder hide. l t contains all 
the spells Manshoon has prepared (see appendix B) plus 
the following spells: alarm, alter self, animate dead, an­
timagic field, arcane lock, blight, dispel magic, dominate 
monst er, dream, etherealness, Evard's black tentacles, 
feather fall, fireball, fly, gaseous form, geas, gentle re­
pose, glyph of warding, hold monster, major image, mass 
suggestion, phantom stee d, protection from evil and 
good, scrying, symbo l, telekinesis. teleport. teleportation 
circle, Tenser's floating disk, tongues. true seeing. vam­
piric touch, wall of/i re, and wish. Stealing or destroy­
ing this spellbook disrupts Manshoon·s operation (see 
"Disruptin g Manshoon's Operation." page 147), since 
he must devote time and resources to retrieving or re­
placing it 
If Laeral Silverhand has the opportunity to trade 
for Manshoon 's spellbook. she offers the characters a 
sailing ship and a set of bracers of archery for it. Vajra 
Safahr offers the characters membership in Force Grey, 
a cape of the mount ebank, and a wand oflightning bolts 
for the book. 
Stone ofGolo rr. If Manshoon has the Stone ofGo­
lorr, he keeps it in the drawer of the table along with 
his ledger. 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
You can use one or more of the following special events 
before or after the characters explore Kolat Towers and 
Manshoon 's extradim ensional sanctum. 
B LACKMAILED LOR DS 
The events described in this section might occur if the 
characters obtain the ledger from area El3 and use the 
information in it to confront either Corylus Thann or 
jelenn Urmbrusk about their suspicious dealings with 
Manshoon. The Thann and Umbrusk families have 
walled estates in the Sea Ward. 
CORYLUS ThANN 
The Thann s arc Waterdeep's most prominent vint­
ners and have deep root s in the city. Corylus (LE male 
Tethyrian human noble) is happy to let other members 