T><E SE A M AIDE NS F AIR E PllRAO E 
But this fruitful alliance lasted less than the lifetime 
of a dwarf, for the emperor of the elves- what they call a 
"coronal" commanded that all leave in the Retreat, that 
great exodus of elves from FaerOn to their mystical isle 
of Evermeet. Not all elves agreed with this edict , and 
many were determined to stay. Well, what empe ror has 
ever willingly allowed another to sit in his throne? The 
coronal had all of Aelinthaldaar razed by magic, and the 
remaining elves splintered into separate kingdoms. The 
Melairkyn , of course, saw this as a brea king of their bar­
gain, and never again did they deal with elves. Instead, 
they tunneled ever deeper under the mountain , never to 
be heard from again. 
So it was that the humans who came to the deepwater 
harbor found it empty and suitab le for their own pur­
poses. For more than a thousand years, folk lived and 
traded at the site of what would become Waterdeep, but 
their identities remain a mystery - with a curious ex­
ceptio n. We know that at some point during this period, 
the wizard Halaster Blackcloak built his tower at the 
base of Mount Waterdeep and came to rule the land s 
around - until he, like the Melairkyn, vanished under 
the mountain. 
Various warlords later claimed the plateau's harbor 
as their own, but it was one known as Nimoar who is 
best remembered. A History of Waterdeep: Age One, 
The Rise of the Warlord records how Nimoar raised a 
wooden stockade to protect the sett lement around the 
harbor, claiming rule over the town that by then was be­
ing ca lled "Nimoar's Hold, the Town of Waters Deep." 
War between ores and elves in lands farther north 
drove hordes of trolls south to claw at the fledgling city, 
and amid this danger, Nimoar died of old age. Many 
bloody struggles unfolded between local folk and trolls, 
until the magic of a youth named Ahghai ron turned the 
fortunes of war against the "everlasting ones," which 
were destroyed or sca ttered. Ahghairon improved slowly 
in skill and power with the passage of the years, until 
he became a great mage. He is said to have discovered a 
supply of potions of longevity, or learned the art of mak­
ing such, for he lived on and on, sti ll physically in his 
prime for decade after decade. 
A History of Waterdeep: Age Two, The Lords' Rule 
Begins records that in the year 1032 DR. Ahghairon 
(then in his l l 2th winter) argued with Raurlor, who 
was then Warlord of Waterdeep. Raurlor wanted to use 
Waterdeep's acquired wealth and strength of arms to 
create a northern empi re. Ahghairon defied him before 
all the people, and Raurlor ordered the mage to be 
chained. But when Ahghairon magically turned aside all 
who sought to lay hands on him, Raurlor struc k at the 
mage with his own sword. Ahghairon then rose into the 
air, just out of reach, and used his magic to transmute 
Raurlor's blade into a hissing serpent. When the ser­
pent struck Raurlor, he died in full view of his shocked 
followers. 
Ahghairon then gathered the leaders ofWaterdeep's 
armies and powerful families. While runners sought to 
bring them to the cast le, flames roared and crackled in 
the empty warlord's throne at Ahghairon's bidding , so 
CU APTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRIOIO N 