that none could sit there. Then, when the gathered host 
of worthies met in the audience chambe r, the wizard 
seated himself on the flaming throne. Immediately the 
fires died away, leaving both the throne and Ahghai­
ron unharmed. 
Prom this seat-the very one on which the Open 
Lord sits to this day-Ahghairon decreed how the city 
would be governed. While he would sit as lord openly, a 
council of other lords of nearly equal power wou ld rule 
with him. But the identity of those other lords would 
be hidden even from each other, thus preventing any of 
them from being approached and influ enced by bribe 
or threat. So it was that Ahghairon established Water­
deep's system of governance. 
Ahghairon was instrumental in establishing many of 
Waterdeep's other institution s, such as its black-robed 
magisters, its Griffon Cavalry, and the city's many 
guilds. The first Open Lord ruled wisely for over two 
centuries before the magic susta ining his health failed. 
He now lies entombed in his tower, which you can still 
see standing in the courtyard of the Palace ofWater­
deep. Beware that you don't approach too close, how­
ever, lest you stumble into the invisible barrier-a "force 
cage," I am told-that surrounds the tower. 
Within that barrier lie additional protective wards, as 
demonstrated by the Boating bones of the last person 
who tried to defy them. The name of this poor soul has 
been lost to time, but the miscreant was likely a wizard 
who sought to steal the magic treasures that had been 
entombed with their former owner. Now they hang in 
C H APTER 9 I VOLO'S WAT£RDF.l!P ENC HIRI DI ON 
the air beyond the invisible force cage in rough sem­
blance of their natural position, occasionally displaced 
temporarily by strong winds or mischievous children 
with long sticks. 
Ahghairon's wise rule is celebrated on the first day of 
Eleasis, which has come to be known as Ahghairon's 
Day. Por more about this day, see "City Celebrations." 
Many significant events stand out in Waterdeep's his­
tory. But none have had so great an effect on daily life 
than the three apocalyptic periods known as the Time of 
Troub les, the Spellplague, and the Sundering - the most 
recent (and hopefully final). On all these occasions, the 
actions of gods at war with one another led to the loss or 
the twisting of magic in the world. During the Time of 
Troubles, Waterdeep stood at the center of events. But 
the effects of the more recent crises can still be seen in 
the city today, even though they occurred a great dis­
tance from where Waterdeep stands. 
When the gods walked among mortals during the 
Time of Troubles, they wer e cast down to the world by 
the mysterious Overgod Ao in 1358 DR. Until then, none 
but the gods had known of Ao's existence, and since 
then, we have learned little more. As all know, the crisis 
began with the theft of the Tablets of Fate by the vile and 
ambitious gods Bane and Myrkul , later joined by BhaaJ. 
These mystic artifacts supposedly determine the extent 
of the gods' power, and dictate how they use that power. 
As punishment for this affront, Ao cast down the gods 
(or the ones that humans worshiped, at any rate) and 
then demanded that they return the tablets to him. 