But Ao was not omniscient, it seems, nor overly wise. 
The gods didn't seek out the tablets, and thus it was left 
to mortal heroes lo sort out the mess. They did so, their 
efforts culminating in Waterdeep. It was on the slopes 
of Mount Waterdeep that Ao was last seen, when he 
granted godhood to the human heroes Kelemvor, Mid­
night (who became Mystra), and Cyric. 
It is no surprise, then, that Waterdeep has since at­
tracted a steady stream of pilgrims who worship Mid­
night al Myslra's temple and pay homage to Kelemvor 
in the City of the Dead. It might surprise you, though, to 
learn that Waterdavians had a short-lived penchant for 
worshiping Ao. The Cynosure-that great marble-pil­
lared structure on the edge of the Market. now rented 
out for private and public events was built as a temple 
to Ao. But his worship fell from favor when all prayers 
to him went unanswered, and folk realized they had 
no idea what he stood for or who he was. You can visit 
the Cynosure to see scuJptures and paintings of all the 
major participants and events in the Time of Troubles. 
Entrance is free to the public on any day when no event 
(such as a meeting of guilds, a noble's coming-of-age 
ball, or some such) is scheduled. 
In the Year of Blue Fire (1385 DR), the Spellplague 
gripped the world. None knew it at the time, but it has 
since been divined that Cyric's long hatred for Mystra 
boiled over and led to his murder of the goddess of 
magic. I was absent from the world at this time-indis ­
posed by the force of an imprisonment spell. Elminster 
has since explained the events to me, but I must confess 
that much of what he said made little sense. It was a 
long lecture having something to do with stars, "crystal 
spheres," and "dcmiplanar realily mirrors." Suffice il to 
say, parts of our world switched with parts of another 
one, and magic was again disrupted. 
During this period. the powerful magical fields that 
protect and affect Waterdeep became unstable. This 
led to the disastrous activation of most of Waterdeep's 
amazing walking statues during an earthquake. In the 
years before, the walking statues were often hidden on 
the Ethereal Plane, to be called forth only in times of 
great peril. Many in the city doubled that such massive, 
sapient constructs were even real, let alone that they 
guarded the city invisibly. The Spellplague confirmed 
their existence for all to see, though. and each carved a 
swath of destruction through Waterdeep before it was 
stopped. Now the walking statues stand about the city in 
various states of readiness or disarray - one of the most 
obvious of Waterdeep's so-called splendors. 
After the Spellplague came the Sundering. Elf schol­
ars insist on calling it the Second Sundering, asserting 
that the creation of Evermeet thousands of years ago 
was a similar happening. Regardless of the name you 
give it, the event that unfolded beginning in 1482 DR 
was the result of another world-called Abeir, I am 
told-passing again into our own. The gods were once 
more cast into the mortal realm, this time embodied in 
mortal beings known as Chosen. The old troublemaker 
Ao seems to be the cause of it all, though why he chose 
to cast down the gods was a matter of dispute even 
among those entities while they were with us. 
Apparently, all of this was foreseen by Waterdeep's 
legendary wizard Khelben Arunsun, and it was only 
through his wisdom and the efforts of El minster, Lacral 
Silverhand - now the Open Lord ofWaterdeep-and a 
handful of others that the world was saved. According to 
Elminster, Ao remade the Tablets of Fate as a result, re­
storing the divine order and separating Abeir from Toril. 
But take that as you may. According to that roguish long­
beard. he saves the world without anyone noticing every 
other month or so. 
SURVIVING IN THE CITY 
Waterdeep is, by and large, the most civilized city on the 
Sword Coast. Yet civilized doesn't mean safe, nor does it 
mean easy to navigate. Many day-to-day elements of life 
in Waterdecp that residents take for granted are, to new 
arrivals, a bevy of wonders and dangers not seen in any 
other settlement with in a thousand miles. Here's what 
you need to know to survive your first few hours in the 
city. Mark this section for frequent reference! 
THE CODE LEGAL 
Waterdeep is no village led by hidebound hierarchs or 
petty fiefdom ruled by the whim of a warlord. It is a city 
of laws molded by Ty r's spirit of justice. As a rule, you 
can trust members of the City Watch to do their duty 
diligently, and you can expect that the city's magisters 
will be fair. Tf you have cause to come before the Masked 
Lords or the Open Lord herself, rest assured that if your 
cause bejust,jusLice will be done. If, however, you find 
yourself in the wrong, know that though it might take 
time to weigh that wrong on Tyr's sca les, his hammer 
will fall- and it will be wielded by Waterdeep with a 
vengeance. 
Unlike in less civilized settlements, punishment for 
crimes in WaLerdeep isn't rypically used as public enter­
tainment. Scheduled executions occur behind the high 
walls of Castle Waterdeep, and floggings are carried out 
in the watch post nearest the sentencing. The Watch 
makes every effort to take individua ls into custody 
quietly, so as not to disrupt other citizens. Those by­
standers generally return the favor by giving altercations 
between criminals and the Watch a wide berth. 
Waterdeep has a complex library of law and custom 
set by precedent, the main body of which can be read in 
the Code Legal. This document is available in multiple 
languages at the Palace of Waterdecp, and (in the Com­
mon tongue) provided on request by the magisters at the 
gates and in the harbor. Be aware thal the Code Legal 
provides only an outline of typical sentences for various 
offenses. and magisters have broad discretion when 
meting out justice as they see fit. Any Masked Lord can 
overturn a magister's ruling, but there's rarely a Masked 
Lord around when you need one. 
ARMS, ARM OR , AND COM BAT 
---
Individuals accustomed to the rough -and-tumble life in 
much of the North are often surprised by the fact that 
Waterdavians go about unarmed and unarmored. Yet 
Waterdeep doesn't have any law that forbids carrying 
CHAPTER 9 VOLO'S WATERDEE P E:>!CHIRIDI O N 