Emerald Enclav e s upport comes in these ways: 
• Enclave members share information they've gathered 
from magicaJ conversations with animals in the city. 
• Melannor Fellbranch (see "Emerald Enclave," page 
35) provides free food and care for the adventurers' 
animals at Phaulkonmere. 
• One adventurer receives a supernatural charm (see 
"Supernatural Gifts" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Mas­
ter's Guide) bestow ed by Jeryth Phaulkon (see "Emer­
ald Enclave,"' page 35). 
FORCE GREY 
To join Force Grey, one must first become a member of 
the Gray Hands. An individual who has served in the 
City Watch or the City Guard is eligible to join, as are 
characters who are willing to swear oaths to defend 
Waterdeep, its citizens, and its laws with their lives. Ad­
venturers who show promise might be invited to join the 
Gray Hands, a faction overseen by the Blackstaff, Vajra 
Safa hr. Members of the Gray Hands complete assign­
ments dictated by Vajra. 
Force Grey is an elite cad re of specialized adventur­
ers, drawn from the rank s of the Gray Hands, whose 
fighting prowess is matched only by their loyalty to the 
city. Force Grey attracts the best of the best. Characters 
don't begin their adventuring ca reers as members of 
Force Grey, but they can work up to that status. 
Whenever Waterdeep has a problem that can't be 
handled by diplomats or the city's other armed forces. 
the Open Lord has the option to mobilize Force Grey. 
Such action is usually taken as a last resort, since some 
past members of the group have exhibited a tendency to 
indulge in wanton violence, causing as much damage as 
they ostensibly prevent. 
Although the Open Lord sets mission goals and pa­
rameters whenever the unit is activated, the Force Grey 
team needed to compl ete any given assignment is made 
up of individuals handpi cked by the Blackstaff. 
If members of Force Grey (and, in some cases, the 
Gray Hands) are arrested for a crime, the Open Lord or 
the Blackstaff will usually intervene on their behalf and 
facilitate their release. 
Force Grey support comes in these ways: 
Adventurers who are arrested are released under the 
loose supervision ofVajra Safahr (see appendix B). 
The adventurers receive a helpful uncom mon or rare 
magic item that they're allowed to use for a time (until 
it mysterious ly disappears). 
• Meloon Wardragon (see appendix B) or some other re­
spected member of Force Grey helps the adventurers 
out of a tough situation. 
HARPERS 
Any sma rt, non-evil character can join the Harpers of 
Waterdeep. Bard s and wizards are especially welcome. 
Harpers are altruists who work behind the scenes to 
keep power out of the hands of evil tyrants. In the cur-
INTRODUCTION 
rent situation , it doesn't take long for them to suspect 
that the Zhentarim is wholly or partially responsible for 
the escalation of violence in Waterdeep. Harper spies 
might use the adventurers as instruments to get at the 
truth. Various nobles and guild masters in the city are 
Harper sympathizers. 
The Harper s have several secret gathering places 
in Waterdeep, among them Ulbrinter Villa, an estate 
located on Delzorin Street between Vhezoar Street 
and Brondar 's Way, in the North Ward Oust south of 
Trollskull Alley). The elf lady of the house, Remallia 
Haventree ("Remi" to her friends), the widow of Lord 
Arthagast Ulbri nter, is a high-ranking member of the 
faction. Other key members include Renaer Neverem­
ber, the estranged son of Lord Dagult Neverember, and 
Mirt, an advisor to Open Lord Laeral Silverha nd. See 
appendix B for more information on these NPCs. 
Harpers prefer to conduct their business in bustling 
inns and taverns such as the Yawning Porta l, or in quiet 
locations such as the City of the Dead. 
Harper support comes in these ways: 
• The Harp ers make commo n and uncommon potions 
and scrolls available to the adventurers at a reduced 
or deferred cost depending on the circumsta nces. 
• Remallia Haventree (see appendix B) feeds useful bits 
of information to the adventurers and might also offer 
them temporary shelter. 
• If the adventurers are accosted and overwhelmed, one 
or more Harp ers come to their rescue. A Harper res­
cue team usuall y consists of a bard (see appendix B) 
or a mage, plus ld4 + 3 spies or veterans . 
LORDS' ALLIANCE 
To become a member of the Lords' Alliance faction in 
Waterdeep, a character must be a Watcrdavian citizen. 
Those with criminal records can also join, provided they 
demonstrate their allegiance to the city. 
The Lords' Alliance is a confederation of cities and 
towns up and down the Sword Coast and throughout the 
North, including (among others) Baidu r's Gate, Mirabar , 
Mithra! Hall, Neverwinter, and Silverymoon. Members 
of the alliance must come to one another's aid in times 
of need, and the organization uses field operatives (dip­
lomats. spies, and assassins) to safeguard its interests. 
Waterdeep is one of the most influential and invested 
members of the Lords' Alliance. Waterdeep's Open 
Lord, Laeral Silverhand, uses spies to keep tabs on 
adventurers in the city, rewarding those who place Wa­
terdeep's interests above their own. Laeral employs ad­
venturers as agents of the Lords' Alliance. among them 
Jalester Silvermane. See appendix B for more informa­
tion on these NPCs. 
Laeral spends most of her time in the Palace of 
Waterdeep. Within walking distan ce of the palace are 
well-maintained government residen ces set aside for 
the use of repr ese ntatives of other Lords' Alliance cities 
and towns. 