GETT I NG A BOUT 
Perambulating is the superior manner of experiencing 
the city and all its splendors. But if you've come with 
your own conveyance, the weather is inclement, or some 
other reason drives you to use the roads, the following 
are facts you need to know. 
TRAFFIC AND TR AVEL 
Waterdeep is a city of broad boulevards that thrum with 
traffic. All day and well into the night, a bewildering me­
lee of wagons. carts, horse and pony riders, carriages, 
buggies, hire-coaches, and Waterdeep's signature tow­
ering drays (further discussed below) surges through 
its major thoroughfares. Fortunately, most roads are 
Banked by paved sidewalks that give pedestrians plenty 
of space, and most of the widest roads have raised di­
viders that allow an individual crossing a street a safe 
space to step out of the fray and wait for traffic to pass. 
The city's centuries-old layout dictates its traffic pat­
terns today. Waterdeep lies on a plateau adjacent to a 
long mountain that shields much of it from the sea. In 
the southern third of the city, where the land slopes 
up from the harbor. the High Road and the Way of the 
Dragon are the two main south - north roads. These 
converge both at the Waymoot near the southern gate, 
and in the heart of the Trades Ward where the city is at 
its narrowest - bounded by Castle Waterdeep, high on 
a spur of the mountain. and the walls of the City of the 
Dead. The conjoined boulevard then splits to the north, 
cont inuing as the High Road, and lo the west as a boule­
vard called Waterdeep Way, heading toward the Palace 
of Waterdeep (not to be confused with Waterdeep Cas­
tle, which it passes hard by}. In the middle of the city, six 
boulevards run north from Waterdeep Way, where they 
meet the road that encircles the Market. On the other 
side of the Market. five boulevards continue north. 
The aforementioned boulevards, along with the Street 
of the Singing Dolphin in the Sea Ward, are the major 
arteries of the city. Hire-coaches and drays can be most 
frequently found on those streets, and traffic is at its 
most hectic there. Most other roads in the city run east 
to west, but regardless of their direction, traffic else­
where is generally less hectic and thus safer to cross. 
STR E ET SIGNS 
Thanks to the Scriveners', Scribes', and Clerks' Guild, 
Waterdeep has a remarkable custom of labeling its 
streets, and even many of its alleyways and courts. The 
method of identification varies by ward and neighbor­
hood (including brass plates, carvings in stone, and sten­
cil -painted wooden signs), but street names are typically 
displayed on the corners of buildings at intersections, 
roughly a dozen feet above ground. The name of the 
road you travel on will be on the wall nearest, while the 
name of the crossing road will be around the corner. 
Simply ingenious! 
LANDMARKS 
Proud Mount Waterdeep provides a useful landmark for 
general orientation. It stands stark across the skyline 
to the west, its far slopes dropping right into the sea. A 
spur of the mountain juts inland, and atop the eastern­
most point of this spur stands Castle Waterdeep. If you 
can see these landmarks. it's relatively easy to orient 
yourself. The mountain peak looms over the southern 
third of the city near the port in the south. The City of 
the Dead lies opposite the northern ridge of Mount Wa­
terdeep, which descends down to the Field of Triumph, 
the city's great coliseum. 
One ofWaterdeep's titanic walking statues, no longer 
mobile, offers another way lo orient yourself on a local 
scale. At nine stories tall, twice the height of any build­
ings nearby, the Honorable Knight stands guard in a 
block of buildings between Snail Street and the Way of 
the Dragon. Positioned as it is nigh the place where four 
wards meet, you can use it to judge where you stand. If it 
is south and west of your position, you are in the Trades 
Ward. North and west? The Southern Ward. South and 
east? The Castle Ward. North and east? You're in the 
Dock Ward. 