TRAFFIC WA RDENS 
During particularly heavy traffic and at congested ar­
eas such as the great oval road around the Market, you 
might see a member of the City Watch serving as a traf­
fic warden. Traffic wardens signal with small blue hand 
flags for traffic to proceed, and with yellow flags for traf­
fic to hold. A traffic warden ca n often be heard blowing 
a whistle. When you hear it, look to the warden to see if 
you are being s igna led. Failure to take care might resu lt 
not only in accident but also arrest. 
D RAYS 
These towering vehicles are, I believe, unique to Water­
deep. Invented by exiles from Lantan in the last century, 
a dray is a long, glassed- in carriage with bench seating 
that provides additiona l open-air bench seating on its 
roof. The drive r sits at the level of the roof seating, pro ­
viding a vantage point to see over other traffic and mak e 
eye co ntact with other dray drivers. You can enter this 
cont raption through the back whenever it stops or slows 
down enough to make mounting the rear step safe. 
A fare taker stands al the back of the lower seating 
area to take your coin (typically 2 to 4 nibs). You can 
choose to ride inside or ascend the spiral stairway at 
the rea r to ride atop the vehicle. Most drays run on the 
main north - south boulevards, but some circle the Mar­
ket, and a few run along the s maller east- west road s 
in rough a reas. Be warn ed that when the demand for 
drays is high- during rain or snow, or to get to or from 
an event al the Field of Triumph - conditions become 
crowded and perfect for pickpockets. 
HI RE- COAC H ES 
If you desire to travel in relative comfort and be the mas­
ter of your destination, s imply give a spirited wave and 
shout to any hire-coach driver who has no passeng ers. 
Each of these hand some, two-wheeled black coaches 
comfortably seats two travelers (perhaps four if you're 
quite slim and very well acquainted), who ride facing the 
road ahead. The hire-coac h's driver sits high and to the 
rear of the carriage, manipulating the horses by means 
of long reins and a short whip on a rod. The fare must 
THE UNFLAPPABLE WATERDAVIAN 
Natives of the City of Splendors are notoriously slow to 
take offense. A Waterdavian plainly states their feelings 
as a warning, so that one is apt to hear "I don't find 
that amusing, friend," said pleasantly before real anger 
is shown. Some visitors misinterpret such behavior as 
cowardice or ignorance ("He was too stupid to realize I 
insulted him!"). For those who act on such misjudgments, 
however, surprise and regret are the usual results. 
Most Waterdavians are also slow to take fright unless 
facing magic or monsters. A swaggering warrior threat­
ening them is quite likely to be stared at calmly, or even 
sneered at. ''The only mortals that Waterdavians fear are 
a few unstable wizards and the Lords," Durnan often says 
to those who are surprised by the nonchalance of the 
Yawning Portal's regulars concerning the open entrance 
to Undermountain in their midst. "And only when they've 
incurred the wrath of said persons themselves." 
be agreed upon and paid before the journey , but only 
rarely will the cos t exceed a half-doze n shards . 
CA RRIAG ES 
The well-to-do- or those who want to ride in luxury 
during a day out- ca n hire a full car riage, many of which 
are as finely outfitted as those owned by the nobility. Up 
to eight ca n take such a ride in silken comfort . Pri ces 
and services vary, but generally you agree to rent the 
carria ge, the serv ices of the driver, and any attendant 
servants or guard s for a full day. 
TRAVEL I N W I NTE R 
The folk of Waterdeep often remain indoors in the 
colder months, particularly when it rains or snows. The 
flow of trade a nd travelers into the city slows to a trickle 
during winter, and as a result, traffic diminishes and 
drays and hire-coac hes become more scarce. Fortu­
nately, the Fellowship of Carters and Coachmen works 
with the Wheelwright s' Guild and the Wagon-makers' 
and Coach Builders' Guild to convert the drays and hire ­
coaches that do operate into sledges, so that some are 
available even in the worst weather. 