NOBILITY ---While you might encounter dwarf diplomats from 
Gauntlgrym, satraps of Arnn. duchesses ofTethyr, or 
thanes of the Northlanders in Waterdeep, the nobles 
you really need to know about are the city's own. Seven ­
ty-eight noble family lines are found here, many of which 
can trace their lineage back to the city's founding. Books 
have been written about individual families - histories of 
their accomplishments and how they fit into the webs of 
wealth and patronage that govern nobles' activities - so 
it is beyond the scope of a pamphlet this size to attempt 
to describe their particulars. I can, however, endeavor 
to equip you with the tools to recognize nobility and to 
interact with the higher class. 
SPOTTING A NOBLE 
Nobility in Waterdeep are granted the right to bear 
arms. In the legal code of the city, this means not merely 
the ability to carry a weapon, but the right to retain up to 
seventy equipped soldiers. These soldiers always wear 
a house's colors and the house's "arms of grace"-a 
heraldic device often borne on a shield, worn as a cloak 
pin, or affixed to a helmet. Others throughout the city, 
even foreign dignitaries, are permitted to retain only up 
to sixteen armed warriors. and laws against imperson­
ating those in the employ of the nobility mean that other 
mercenaries and bodyguards most often dress plainly, 
so as not to be mistaken for the retinue of a noble. So 
your first clue that you might be in the company of a 
noble is the sight of a large number of armed and uni­
formed soldiers. 
Many nobles, particularly younger ones seeking 
entertainment, trave l without an entourage of guards 
or only in the company of other nobles. In this case, 
you'll know you're in the presence of nobility because 
of the deference others give them. Follow suit, and you 
should be fine. 
Above all, be polite. Always address a known noble 
as "Lord" or "Lady." A short bow or a nod of the head to 
acknowledge a noble upon each meeting and parting is 
A WONDROUS PEO PLE 
Whenever you find yourself in a bustling city, you're likely 
to spot a wonderful variety of folk. You hear words in lan­
guages utterly foreign to you, and you smell dishes both 
delectable and strange. Waterdeep is the ultimate city of 
such delights, and before long, the alien thing becomes 
familiar to you, and the stranger becomes your friend. 
The people ofWaterdeep are among the greatest of its 
splendors. Fashion, comportment, love-these things 
are practiced with an art and a zest in the city uncommon 
elsewhere. Visit a festhall or festival and see for yourself! 
And don't miss the cross·dressing performers who regale 
audiences with humor and song. Fabulous-that word 
doesn't begin to describe it, especially when they enhance 
the merriment with magic. 
The city is also a haven for those who define for them­
selves what it means to be a man or a woman, those who 
transcend gender as the gods do, and those who redefine 
entirely who they are. What confidence! I never tire of wit­
nessing it. I have seen folk in Waterdeep whose lives are 
more magical than the marvels possible with spells. 
C HAPTE R 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEH fNCHIR I DION 
customary. Obsequiousness and servility is something 
all Waterdavians scorn. but you should also beware of 
acting in an overly familiar, boastful, or disrespectful 
way when in the presence of any noble. Though this 
sort of behavior isn't a crime, and laws against dueling 
prevent a noble from initiating a direct armed confron­
tation, the noble families ofWaterdeep have immense 
power in the city, often in unexpected quarters. Many 
have influence in nations as distant as Calimshan and 
Cormyr. Be assured that any slighting of a noble will not 
be forgotten or easily forgiven. 
lf you're not certain whether someone is a noble, ad­
dress the gentleman as "Saer" or the gentlewoman as 
"Goodwoman." Neither will give offense , and generally a 
noble will politely correct you as to their actual title. 
NOBLES AND P ATRONAGE 
Nobles in Waterdeep are patrons of and investors in all 
manner of businesses in the city and abroad, as well 
as the many expressions of the arts. They spend coin 
to fund celeb rations, contests at the Field of Triumph, 
upkeep at the city's temples and shrines, civic projects, 
guild events, and charitable actions such as burial of the 
unknown dead. Their motives are manifold, but their ac­
tions - no matter the reason - earn them loyalty and high 
regard from those who benefit from their largesse. 
Seeking patronage from a noble without having been 
introduced to that person is considered an insult, so you 
must first befriend someone in a noble's employ or circle 
of influence. Doing so is no guarantee of ultimate suc­
cess; much time and coin can be wasted trying to curry 
favor with an acquaintance of a noble who turns out to 
be unscrupulous or of little help for some other reason. 
My advice is to do something deserving of attention, 
whatever your vocation, and someone from the noble 
families ofWaterdeep will eventually show an interest. 
KNOW A NOBLE 'S BUSINESS 
In the words of that quarrelsome acquaintance of mine 
from the Dales, "Before you strut your stuff in the 
chickens' preening circle, get to know the other cocks 
first." This colorful aphorism applies well to the affairs 
of nobility, because when you have interaction with a 
noble, you are at the same time dealing with one's entire 
family as well as a network of business associates and 
allies. That situation can put you in a troublesome spot 
if you arc unaware of the noble's connections. 
GUILDS AND GUILD LAW 
No aspect of life in Waterdeep goes untouched by at 
least one of its more than forty guilds. Virtually every 
profession has an associated guild, and there's hardly 
a citizen of the city who doesn't belong to one or more 
guilds, or doesn't work for someone who does. As a 
visitor to Waterdeep, you need to know this, lest you run 
afoul of "Guild Law." Guild Law isn't technically in the 
legal code ofWaterdeep, but guilds are mentioned in the 
oldest surviving legal documents penned by Ahghairon 
himself- and the rules of Guild Law are respected by 
wise city folk. 