NORTH WARD 
Nobles aplenty live in the North Ward, but the character 
of thi s ward is more peaceful than that of the Sea Ward. 
Though it has taverns and shops to suit a variety of 
tastes, the tenor of the area tends toward reserved and 
polite. Most streets are lined with row houses inhab­
ited by the families of prosperous people of business, 
investing, and civi c servi ce. They are each wealthy 
enough to employ a servant or two, or they endeavor to 
appear as such. 
For the best experienc e in the North Ward, go there 
just before dawn, buy a broadsheet, and settle in at a 
cafe with a view of the street. Watch as the ward comes 
quietly to life around you. At first. it will be so silent 
that you'll be able to hear the resident a street over who 
opens her sash for fresh air and clears her throat. Then 
the birdsong will begin, and short ly thereafter, you'll 
hear and then see the drays arriv ing with servants. 
These aren't the live-in staff used by noble houses, but 
people hired to come and work for a day. Most of them 
come from less affluent parts of the city, arriving with 
the tools of their trade and outfitted in their customary 
garb: launderers and cooks in white, chimney sweeps 
and housecleaners in black, valets and child -minders in 
gray, gardeners in green, and tutors in blue. 
As these servants spread out to knock on doors and 
begin their work, the residents of the ward take their ex­
its, parting fondly with spouses and children, their foot­
steps tramping along the sidewalks or taking them into 
rauling hire-coaches. In the span of just an hour, the 
North Ward comes to noisy life and then settles again 
into quiescence, until later in the day when the process 
reverses itself, as residents return from work and ser­
vants leave. 
The liveliest, and perhaps the loveliest, part of the 
ward is the Cliff watch. Here, the plateau upon which 
Waterdeep sits features cliffs so steep and high that the 
city wall is interrupted lo either side of them. Some of 
MAJOR TEMPLE S OF W ATE RD EEP 
Deity or Deities Temple Name Location 
All deities Holyhands House North Ward 
All elven deities Temple of the Seldarine Castle Ward 
Gond House of Inspired Sea Ward 
Hands 
Helm Helm's Hall Southern Ward 
llmater Hospice of St. North Ward 
Laupsenn 
Lathander Spires of the Morning Castle Ward 
Mielikki, Silvanus Shrines of Nature Sea Ward 
Mystra House of Wonder Sea Ward 
Oghma Font of Knowledge Castle Ward 
Selune Tower of the Moon Sea Ward 
Sune Temple of Beauty Sea Ward 
Tempus House of Heroes Sea Ward 
Tymora Tower of Luck Castle Ward 
Tyr Halls of justice Castle Ward 
Umberlee The Queenspire Beach 
C HAPTER 9 I VOLO'$ WATERDEEP ENCHJRIOJON 
the most lavish residences and most luxurious taverns 
and inns ofWaterdeep stand along this space, boasting 
terraces and balconies that allow one to take in the 
beautiful sight of the countryside to the east. Yet you 
need not pay their high prices, for a public walkway 
along the cliff's edge offers pedestrians ample opportu­
nity to enjoy the view. 
The North Ward's colors are green and orange. and its 
mascot is the gentle white dove, depicted in flight. Many 
North Ward homes have dovecotes on their roofs. and 
the great flocks of the birds that circle over the city at 
dawn and dusk are a delight to behold. 
CASTLE WARD 
The Castle Ward is the heart and mind ofWaterdeep, if 
not its soul. ft houses the city's military forces, courts, 
governme nt, and the Market - the largest market square 
of any city in the North. 1l encompasses the City Navy's 
docks in the Great Harbor and all of Mount Waterdeep, 
and it is home lo six walking statues, numerous temples, 
and many other landmark s. 
Castle Waterdeep stands above the city on a great 
bluff that extends out from the mountain, its towers 
soaring hundreds of feet into the sky. It surprises many 
to learn that this isn't where Waterdeep·s rulers reside, 
nor from where the city is governed. The castle was and 
is a redoubt of last defense should the city be attacked, 
but for well over a century, the ruler of Waterdeep has 
occupied the Palace of Waterdeep - also known as Pier­
geiron's Palace, and still called that by elderly and long­
lived citizens (including many elves). 
Though not quit e as large as the castle. the palace is 
far more comfortable and lavishly decorated, with many 
halls used by government officials , guildmasters, and 
nobles for meetings and court proceedings. lfyou have 
reason to be invit ed (not compelled, r should hope!) to 
meet with the Masked Lords or the Open Lord ofWater­
deep, it will likely take place in the audience chamber of 
the palace. There, you can witness the ancient and hum­
ble throne that Ahghairon first sat upon so long ago. 
Many other buildings in the ward are given over to city 
business, includin g several courts for magisters and the 
barracks of the City Guard. So many of the ward's struc­
tures are offices and meeting halls for business owners, 
solicitors, publishers, and the like that the Castle Ward 
has the smallest resident population of all the wards. 
Many landmarks of interest are found in this ward 
aside from the six walking statues (discussed later in 
this chapbook). You could hardly see them all in a day, 
but the following are highly recommended. 
BlackstaffTower is a squat black blot in the otherwise 
pretty ward. Humble though the edifice might be, look­
ing at the place for too long can give you a queasy feeling 
and the sense that you are being watched - almost as if 
the tower itself has turned an unseen and wrathful eye 
upon you. Perhaps you think this fanciful. Well, go and 
try it yourself! 
On the opposite end of the mountain, close to the Na­
val Harbor, stands Mirt's Mansion. Once a fortress-like 
and glowering tower, it has been upgraded with more 
delicate fashions of architecture since the return of its 
long-absent owner. 