Mirt has quite a history with Durnan, the propri etor of 
the Yawning Portal. Together they descended into "the 
Well," as the e ntran ce to Undermountain was known in 
olden days. Waterdeep used to throw criminals in the 
Well, leavin g them to die horribly in Undermountain 's 
dungeons. Durnan and Mirl entered the dungeons of 
their own free will- and not only that , but returned 
laden with treas ures. Both used magic to extend their 
lives, but they eventua lly parted ways. Mirt kept on with 
a life of adventure , while Duman built the tavern cal led 
the Yawning Portal over the Well and now, almost two 
cent uries later, charges coin to descend into it. Not a bad 
way to part fools from their money! 
The glorious Spires of the Morning, dedicated to 
Lathander, is one of Waterdeep 's most beautiful tem­
ples. But it is rivaled in this ward by the Temple of the 
Seldarine , dedicated to all the elf gods. The journ ey 
through Mount Melody Walk, a tunnel c ut through 
Mount Waterdeep, to New Olamn's academy of music 
and other arts is a wondrous daytime excursion. The 
Market offers a wild array of s ights, sme lls, and sounds 
in which folk might lose themselves for a tenday. The 
Font of Knowledge is a temple to Oghma, yes, but also 
the city's largest public library. Titles written throughout 
the ages can be viewed here - under the watchful eyes of 
the temple's priests. In sho rt (if I can claim this section 
of the enc hiridion to be such), the Cas tle Ward offers far 
too many splendors to list them all here. 
TwE STA TELY, CLE AN , /\N O IVELL·OEl'E NOEO C AS TLE WARD 
The Castle Ward's colors are blue and purple, and its 
mascot is a griffon. typically depicted in gold. These bor­
row colors from the city's flag and reference the Griffon 
Cavalry, of cours e. Cham pions for the wa rd often come 
from among the rank s of the Gua rd, the Navy, or the 
Cavalry. Although such competitors have often have the 
advantage in races and competitio ns, their crowds of 
rabidly cheering fans are natur ally much sma ller than 
those of othe r wards. 
TRADES WARD 
Shopping, shopping, shopping galore! Or eating, eat­
ing, eat ing! Or drinking, drinking, drinking! Or lavish 
accommodations, or fine art, or legendary parties! The 
Market in the Castle Ward is the largest market squa re 
in the city, but the Trades Ward is like a market town in 
itself- and is easily thrice the Market's s ize. 
This ward bustl es day and night with activity, both on 
the street and on balcony walkways that run the length 
of blocks and are sometimes layered five stories high. 
S hop s igns appear to leap out from buildings, whose 
sides a re plastered with advertisements all vying for the 
attention of the eye. Glove shops, shoe s hops, jewelry 
stores, perfum eries, flower s hops, ca ke sho ps, taverns, 
cafes, tea shops, inns, row houses, boarding schoo ls, 
offices, dance academies, grocers, pottery sto res, armor 
vendors-as long as it's not illegal, you can find it in the 
Trades Ward. But if you are looking for somethi ng ille­
ga l, the Trades Ward is likely the place to get that too. 