Do not do so too loudly, though. The City Watch has a 
heavy pres ence in this ward, in the form of both open 
patrols and officers working out of uniform. 
As befits a place of so much business, many guilds 
have their halls in this ward. Of particular note is the 
House of Light, the hall of the Guild of Chandlers and 
Lamplighters. Outside the building, a wagon-sized 
mound of wax with hundreds of wicks is kept lit day 
and night, while being continually built up with adhered 
candles. Inside, the best works of the guild are put on 
display and sold, includin g not just candles of various 
colors, lamps, and chandeliers, but elaborate waxwork 
constructions that depict all sorts of subjects from per­
sonages of note, to dragons , to complex and abstract 
lattice s- all represent ed as fantastical candles. 
Magic users should be wary in the Court of the White 
Bull. Long ago, this plaza was a grazing area for live­
stock, including an albino calf that was born here. The 
calf's owner built the White BuJI Tavern, which thrived 
on the spot for years and gave the area its name. You'll 
not find the tavern now, though. It vanished, utterly 
destroyed during an infamous spell battle between the 
archmage Thongalar the Mighty and the evil mage Shile 
Rauretilar and his apprentices. In the storm of magic 
that touched down here, Shile and his apprentices all 
perished and the fabric of the Weave was rent, such 
that Azuth, god of wizard s, was forced to appear and 
set things right. He is said to have stitched reality and 
the Weave back together, but a wrinkle in the fabric re­
mains. To this day, magic brought to bear in the Court 
of the White Bull sometimes goes awry, and the use of 
magic items and spells is forbidden in the area. 
The Trades Ward uses green and purple as its colors, 
and its mascot is the mimic. This tradition supposedly 
arose because when mascots were first chosen, the 
Trades Ward took a chest of gold as its own-and was 
roundly mocked by citizens of other wards for not pick­
ing a creature. Now, every four years, the ward reveals 
a new object for its mascot , declaring it to be the mimic. 
The nature of the object is subject to much speculation 
and rumor until its unveiling. For months afterward, 
the object becom es the source of practical jokes in 
Waterdeep. Rock gnomes and wizards cause illusory 
mouths to lunge from real versions of the object, arti­
sans craft beautifu l fakes out of cake or paper that are 
easily crushed when assumed to be rea l, and so on. As 
of the writing of this enchiridion, the current mimic is 
a tankard. 
SOUTHERN WARD 
It is called the Southern Ward, not the South Ward. Wa­
terdavians are peculiar about this, and if you insist on 
referring to it as the South Ward, expect to be corrected 
or thought a fool. The name derives not merely from its 
southerly location in the city, but from the southerners 
who settled in this district as the city grew. Today, the 
ward still hosts most of the trave ling merchants who 
visit the city, and is made up of many enclaves, blocks, 
and streets primarily occupied by citizens who trace 
their ancestry to other realms. 
One can indulge in the finest halfling food here, enjoy 
the best singers of Calishite music, and examin e the 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCH ! RID ION 
most stun ning works of dwarveo crafting - but the first 
challenge is finding where these treats are housed. 
The Southern Ward has long been a district of laborers 
catering to travelers, so its folk have adopted the archi­
tectural custom of building homes and businesses above 
stables or around inn yards, near to where wagon trains 
are housed. 
Residents of the Southern Ward take pride in their 
legacy as overland travelers and hardworking folk, so 
it shoul d be no surprise that the ward's mascot is the 
mule. On their competition flags, a pugnacious mule in 
rampant pose stands on a field of red and white-colors 
said to represent the blood and tears the people of the 
Southern Ward have shed during their labors. 
Not a landmark as such, but surely a sight that must 
be seen, is the Moon Sphere. This isn't a structure 
but an event that occurs during every full moon. when 
a glowing, spherical field of blue light appears in the 
square known as the Dancing Court. Any creat ures that 
enter the sphere find that they can fly about inside it just 
by willing themselves to do so. For centuries, Waterda­
vians have used these supernatural events to develop a 
unique flying style of dance - but amateur enthusiasts 
aren't welcome, except on certain daylight appearances 
of the full moon. 
Even when the full moon isn't out, the Dancing Cou rt 
is worth visiting because of the adjacent festha ll, the 
Jade Dancer. During appearances of the Moon Sphere, 
people sometimes daringly leap into the field of magic 
from the balconies of this three-story tavern, dance hall, 
and inn. But the festhall takes its name from a peculiar 
dancer within it rather than those in the court outside. 
The '1ade Dancer" is an eight-foot-tall jade statue of 
a woman that magically animates and dances for pa­
trons-and on occasion serves as a bouncer. Elminster 
has informed me that despite its dexterity and seem­
ingly fragile beauty, the jade Dancer is as puissant as a 
stone golem. So enjoy the show, but don't get too rowdy. 
DocKWARD 
The Dock Ward was long considered the most danger­
ous district in the city, but the Field Ward has since 
taken that title. I don't doubt the residents of the Dock 
Ward are glad of it, for in some respects this area has 
never truly dese rved its bad reputation. 
Yes, aside from the Field Ward, this is the area where 
most of Waterdeep's poor reside. Yes, it is home to some 
of the least literate people in the city. Yes, most of its 
taverns are inhabit ed by habitual drinkers, and far too 
many inns charge by the hour. But aU must concede this: 
the residents of the Dock Ward often work the hardest 
while living under the harshest conditions. 
Warehouses, poorhouses, and tenements dominate 
much of the area. Streets are steep throughout, and 
few have space alongside for pedestrians. Wandering 
through the ward ca n be a bewildering journey without 
a guide. Except in the immediate vicinity of the piers, 
shop sig ns and advertising of any kind are rare, and 
warehouses and other businesses often have no sign 
at all. You either know where you are going and have 
reason to be there - or you are lost , and a likely mark for 
pickpockets or worse. 