ward, and above its open palm floats a sphere of stone. 
Its gaze looks up toward the sphere, and the pattern of 
bird droppings around its eyes gives it the appearance 
of weeping. 
All about the statue, climbing up its chest and on its 
knee and shoulders, is a tenement that carries the name 
"the God Catcher." The tenement's landlord is Aundra 
Blackcloak, an unsociable sorcerer who is rarely seen 
in the city except when she alights from the door carved 
in the floating sphere, which serves as her home. On 
the rare occasions when she wants to meet with city 
folk (typically to purchase odd substances for magical 
purposes), she appears unannounced on balconies or 
rooftops after dark. Her dealings are polite, though, and 
she pays fair coin. She never confides in anyone or talks 
about her own doings-and if anyone but she has ever 
seen the inside of her spherica l home, they've said noth­
ing publicly about it. 
THE GRIFFON 
The walking statue called the Griffon is shaped like the 
beast for which it is named. Though it stands on all four 
legs, its back is fully twenty feet off the ground, making 
it a mount fit for a storm giant. Although it has shown 
itself to be capable of flight, with the granite feathers of 
its wings spreading like a bird's, the Griffon now merely 
stands in a regal pose near Peaktop Aerie atop Mount 
Waterdeep, looking to the southeast over the Dock 
Ward. Newcomers sometimes assume it to be a monu­
ment to Waterdeep's Griffon Cavalry, but Waterdavians 
know better. 
THE SAHUAGIN HUMBLED 
For years, the only visible walking statue of Waterdeep 
was known simply as "the walking statue." It stood at 
the foot of Mount Waterdeep near the head of Julthoon 
Street. Then, after its critical role in defending the city 
against an invasion of sahuagin in 1370 DR, Khelben 
Blackstaff reshaped the statue into a sahuagin. Lt now 
bows low toward the House of Heroes on bended 
knee - a gesture of obeisance to the city, and an ac­
knowledgment of the sacrifice of all who fought for the 
city in that war. 
THE GREAT DRU NKARD 
This walking statue stopped its rampage as it ap­
proached the Market, then fell backward and sat upon 
a building. When it settled. its arms fell limp at its sides 
and its head tilted forward onto its chest, giving the 
impression that it had fallen asleep. The statue's huge 
stone battleaxe still stands nearby, its haft angled up­
right and its blade half buried in the cobbles. The rubble 
of the crushed building was long ago rebuilt into a broad 
stone stair (with railings and a ramp that drunkards are 
often rolled down) that ascends from the cobbles to the 
statue's lap. That lap now holds a two-story tavern also 
built from the rubble, called Gralkyn's Tankard. The 
unconscious pose of the statue and the tavern in its lap 
made the name of the Great Drunkard a natural fit. 
THE LADY DREAMIN G 
This fair lady caused much chaos when she was active. 
The statue has the appearance of a female elf, whose 
hair and clothing appeared to flow naturally as it walked 
through the city during the Spellplague. When the walk­
ing statues stopped, this one toppled onto its side, taking 
on the appearance of a titanic sculpture of a noble lady 
asleep in her garden. 
THE HONORABLE KNIGH T 
The Honorable Knight is a statue of a male warrior in 
plate armor with a shield and longsword. When the 
walking statues stopped, it bowed to those opposing it, 
straightened, sheathed its sword, and doffed its shield, 
setting it point down on tbe ground and upright by 
its side. lt then ceased motion in this position, facing 
southwest toward the harbor , and looking for all the 
world like a castle guard standing at ease . The pose it 
assumed led to its naming, and it is viewed with respect 
by the citizens of the southerly wards. 
THE HAWK MAN 
This statue looks like a winged, hawk-headed being, and 
thus locals call it the Hawk Man. 1 can reveal that in fact 
it bears much resemblance to an aarakocra, one of the 
bird-people said to live in the Star Mounts in the High 
Forest. The statue's wings are folded tightly against its 
back and have never unfurled, leaving its flight capa­
bility uncertain. It was brought low during its rampage 
across the city, and now it tilts decidedly toward the 
northeast due to a missing right foot- long ago broken 
up for building rubble, along with its right arm. Its left 
arm is extended out toward the north, palm forward as 
if in a gesture to say, "Stop." 
The body bas been bolJowed out and turned into a 
tower shared by several wealthy tenants, which is of­
ficially known as Sparaunt Tower after its owner. The 
statue's left hand extends over a courtyard to the north, 
wherein lies the entrance of a tunnel carved through 
the arm. Visitors and residents can ring a bell in the 
courtyard, whereupon a door guard acknowledges the 
ringer and lowers a rope ladder for tenants and expected 
guests (or a rope chair that is drawn up for guests who 
are infirm or laden with heavy items). 
THE SWORDMAIDEN 
This statue appears virtually identical to the Honorable 
Knight, except for its female form and open-faced helm . 
It was felled during the Spellplague after causing much 
chaos and slaughter. The residents ofWaterdeep's North 
Ward funneled much of their frustrated and dismayed 
reaction to its rampage into dismantling the statue , 
parts of which can now be found all over the North 
Ward, either incorporated into buildings or as bits of 
freestanding scu lpture. 
The bead of the Sword maiden sits in a stand of 
tall trees in the center of the block of the North Ward 
bounded by Hassantyr's Street, Tarsar's Street, Whael­
gond Way, and Ussilbran Street. The center of its jaw 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRIDION 