and mouth have been replaced by a door, which leads 
into the shop known as Thort's Findings . Undevvur 
Thort is a wizened ex-adventurer who leans on a cane 
(which some locals insist is more than just a cane). He 
lives in the small shop, whose many levels, staircases, 
and landings fi ll the hollowed-out interi or of the head, 
and which is crammed with oddments sold to Thort by 
adventurers and other travelers. These items bear little 
placards in Thort's beautiful, flowing handwriting that 
identify them (or at least provide speculation as to their 
INFAMO US ALLEYS 
Waterdeep has as many alleys as Baldur's Gate has cats, 
and each has a name and a story. Here are a few that you 
might wish to see--o r should know to avoid. 
Ruid's Stroll. This short avenue from Caravan Court 
to the Trollwall in the Southern Ward is haunted by the 
hooded ghost of the mage Ruid, whose touch causes 
deathly chills to those he meets on foggy nights. All 
attempts to banish or turn the spirit have failed. Those 
who brave its unearthly approach and allow Ruid to pass 
through them learn a secret truth about someone or 
something in their life-if they survive. 
Brindul Alley. This is the lair of the Hand that Sings, a 
magical phantasm of a hand with a mouth in its palm. 
The hand is said to snatch valuables it fancies-especia lly 
magical ones-when it encounters them, and to occasionôÙ
ally attack folk in the darkness, strangling them or tripping 
them into fatal falls. Most often, though, it takes no noôÙ
tice of those who don't bother or follow it, eerily singing 
fragments of old Sword Coast ballads and love songs as it 
drifts through the night. 
Manycats Alley. This passage crosses two city blocks 
and winds through the interior of a third, running between 
and (for the most part) parallel to Julthoon Street and 
Traders' Way in the North Ward. It is, unsurprisingly, home 
to many cats that feed on scraps from the surrounding 
butchers' shops, but it is also known for the many carved 
stone heads of people and animals that adorn the alley's 
buildings. Individuals who have walked the alley alone 
report that some of the heads whispered cryptic mesôÙ
sages to them. 
Gondwatch Lane. Found at the southern entrance to 
the House of Inspired Hands in the Sea Ward, this alley 
serves as the testing ground for inventions considered too 
dangerous to operate inside the temple. The locals are 
generally unconcerned about the risks, though, and stand 
watching while food vendors circulate among them. 
Pharra's Alley. This alley in the Sea Ward is named after 
the first leader of the House of Wonder, but is more infaôÙ
mous for its Circle of Skulls. This infrequent and unpreôÙ
dictable haunting takes the form of seven floating skulls, 
which hover in a circle and argue with one another in 
whispered tones about events in the city. If they are interôÙ
rupted, their reaction reportedly varies from being helpful 
to engaging in murderous spell-slinging. 
Three Daggers Alley. This alley in the Dock Ward suffers 
from a magical curse that causes three daggers to appear 
out of thin air and attack passersby. The daggers swoop 
and fly about, making multiple attempts at murder before 
vanishing again. This magical effect, the result of a spell 
cast by a long-dead wizard, has resisted all attempts to 
dispel it. Some locals boast of how many times they've 
crossed the alley and lived to tell of it, but the appearance 
of the daggers is entirely a matter of chance, and unpreôÙ
dictable. So take my advice and don't test Tymora's favor. 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRIDTON 
origin and purpose). Nobles and wea lthy merchants 
who desire props for themed revels often rent some of 
Thort's wares as decoration - and many sages, alcheôÙ
mists, and wizards visit him regularly in search of poôÙ
tentially useful items. 
C I TY C E LEBRATIONS 
At many times of year, hardly a tenday can pass in WaôÙ
terdeep without the staging of some rite, race, or rous ôÙ
ing ceremony of civic pride . Here I briefly summarize 
the most wide ly celebrated events on the calendar, from 
the first of Hammer to the last of Nightal. 
HAMMER 1: WINTERSHIELD 
Marking the start of the new year, this obse rvance is a 
widely recognized day off work, when folk sip warmed 
ciders and broths (often laced with herbs for health and 
to bring on visions) and stay inside. They tell tales of 
what interested them or was important in the year just 
done, and discuss what they intend to do or should deal 
with- or things that everyone "should keep a hawk's 
clear eye on"- in the year ahead. 
Such talk inevitably leads to discussions of politics, 
wars, and the intentions of rulers . Maps are usually conôÙ
sulted, and it's widely considered lucky to possess and 
examine a map on Wintershield . Map sales a re brisk in 
the tenday preceding this holiday. 
ALTURIAK 14: THE GRAND REVEL 
Led by the clergy of S une, Sharess, and Lliira, the 
Grand Revel is a day of dancing, music, and the conôÙ
sumption of sweet treats of all kinds, from chocolate 
to red firemint candies . Although some of the dancing 
is wanton a nd performed for show, large-scale ring 
dances in the street for all ages are also popula r. All the 
dancing ends at dusk, after which bards and minstrels 
perform at "love feasts" for fam ilies. Couples-or those 
desiring to become couples - slip away together to kiss, 
exchange promises, and trade small tokens of affection 
(often rings blessed by clergy with prayers of faithfulôÙ
ness). Even if you have no paramour, indulge a little in 
the dance and food of this fine tradition. The night might 
be cold. but your heart will be warmed. 
CHES 1: RHYESTERTIDE 
This holiday is named in honor of Lathander's first 
prophet, Rhyester, a young blind boy who was cured 
of that blindness by the dawn's light on this day more 
than seven centuries ago. That holy event occu rred in 
the vicinity of Silverymoon. but Lathander has long had 
a much larger temple in Waterdeep, and a following to 
match. Each of the faithful dons bright garb of sunrise 
hues and keeps one eye covered unt il the next dawn in 
honor of Rhyester. If you want to feel like a local, catc h 
the eye of any celebrant you see and wink. Fine friendôÙ
ships have grown from far less . 
CHES 19: FEY DAY 
The veil between this world and the faerie realm of the 
Feywild is thought to be weak on this day. Though this 
phenomenon provokes caution in rural areas (with folk 
avoiding woodlands, putting offerings of food on door-