steps. and the like), it is an occasion of much drinking, 
singing, and dancing in Waterdeep. The wealthy host 
elaborate masked balls, while poorer folk don costumes 
of their own make and travel door to door, gaining brief 
entry into the celebrations in exchange for performing 
a song or a short play. All adopt the guises of fey beings 
and the supposed rulers of the Feywild, such as Queen 
Titania, Oberon. and Hyrsam, the Prince of Fools. 
Those inclined to remain sullen in the face of such fri­
volity had best stay home, for celebrants do their utmost 
to evoke a smile from those they meet. 
CHES 21-30: FLEETSWAKE 
This festival celebrates the sea, maritime trade. and the 
gods of the sea. navigation, and weather. It spans the 
last tenday of Ches, and includes a series of boat races, 
the Shipwrights' Ball at the Shipwrights' House, and 
guild-sponsored galas at the Copper Cup festhall. Ac­
cording to custom, the winners of the various competi ­
tions don't keep their trophies and earnings, but deliver 
them to the priests ofUmberlee at the Queenspire, her 
temple on the beach by the east entrance to the Great 
Harbor. at the conclusion of the festival. 
The last two days of Fleetswake are the occasion of 
the Fair Seas Festival. During this time, there is much 
feasting on seafood, the harbor is strewn with Rower 
petals, and City Guards go from tavern to tavern collect­
ing offerings for Umberlee. Collection boxes also appear 
at large festival gatherings. Upon sunset of the final day. 
the collecced coin is placed in chests and dumped into 
the deepest part of the harbor. 
This festival has existed in a number of forms since 
the first trade-meets occurred here more than two 
millennia ago, and an uncountab le amount of wea lth 
remains sunken in what has long been known as Um­
berlee's Cache. The area is closely watched by merfolk 
guardians, whose standing orders are to kill anyone 
attempting to disturb it. Rumors abound that the chests 
have magical protections; one story tells of thieves who 
stole some of the collection years ago and tried to leave 
the city under false pretenses, only to see a squall spring 
up as soon as their ship left the harbor. A huge wave 
shaped like a hand swept the thieves overboard, but 
spared the ship and its crew. 
TARSAHK 1-10: WAUKEENTIDE 
This festival has long gathered a number of older holi­
days under one name, stretching those celebrat ions into 
a holiday season that lasts a tenday. Among the rituals 
in homage to the goddess of wealth and trade are these: 
Caravan ce (Tarsabk 1). This gift-giving holiday com­
memorates the traditional arrival of the first caravans 
of the season into the city. Many parents hide gifts for 
their offspring in their homes, telling the children that 
they were left by Old Carvas - a mythical peddler who 
arrived with the first caravan to reach Waterdeep, his 
wagon loaded down with toys for children to enjoy. 
Goldenight (Tarsahk 5). This festival celebrates coin 
and gold, with many businesses staying open all night, 
offering midnight sales and other promotions. Some 
celebrants and customers decorate themselves with 
gold dust and wear coins as jewelry. 
Guildsm eet (Ta rsabk 7). On this holiday, guild mem­
bers gather in their halls for the announcement of 
new policies and a celebration of business concluded 
for the year. These gatherings culminate in a gala 
festival and dance sponsored by several guilds, which 
lasts from dusk till dawn and overruns the Market, 
the Cynosure, the Field of Triumph, and all areas 
in between. 
Leiruin (Tars ahk 10). ln times long past, Waukeen 
caught Leira, the goddess of illusions and deception, 
attempting to cheat her in a deal, and buried her under 
a mountain of molten gold as punishment. A commem ­
oration of that event, Leiruin is the day for guild mem ­
bers to pay their annual dues and for guildmasters to 
meet with the Lords of Waterdeep and renew their 
charters for another year. 
MIRTUL 6-9: THE PLOWINC AND RUNNING 
Rura l areas around the city observe this holiday in the 
traditiona l sense of shared activities of plowing fields 
and moving (or "running") livestock. But within the city, 
the holiday is celebrated with a series of races. Foot, 
horse, and chariot races are run through courses in 
each ward, and the winners from each ward compete 
at the Field of Triumph. If you really want to see the 
wards come to life, this is the time. Pick your favorite, 
wear its colors, and cheer alongside its residents. Beller 
yet. if you're of an adventuresome bent, register in your 
favored ward and compete! Who knows? Your name or 
visage might soon have a place in the House of Heroes. 
KYTHORN l: TROLLTIDE 
On this day commemorating Watcrdeep's victory in the 
Second Trollwar, children run through the city acting 
Like trolls, banging on doors and growling. from highsun 
till dusk. Home and shop owners are expected to give 
the children candy, fruits. or small items. Those who 
give no treat can expect to become the target of a trick at 
sundown. This mischief typically takes the form of "troll 
scratchings" at doors and windows. Those with more 
malicious intent sing screechingly in the wee hours, and 
hurl raw eggs al windows, signs, and the heads of those 
who try to stop them. Have some candy on hand or some 
sweet rolls, and all will be calm where you live. 
KYTHORN 14: GUILDHALL DAY 
This day is a time of trade fairs. Most shops are closed, 
and street sales are suspended for all but walking 
food peddlers. Guildhall Day celebrates the fruits of 
everyone's labor with revelations of new products, inno­
vations, fashions, and signage extolling the extent and 
quality of guild members' services and wares. These 
offerings usually take the form of glittering displays, but 
guilds sometimes also sponsor brief plays or other hired 
entertainments (jugglers, singers, magic shows put on 
by hedge wizards and professional raconteurs) at which 
prizes or free samples are distributed. Many guilds try 
to recruit during this time. Guildhall Day is an excellent 
time to browse the city's merchandise - and it doesn't 
matter if you can't afford what you see, because you 
can't buy it that day anyway. 
CHAPTER 9 J VOLO'S WATl::RDEEP ENCHIRIDlON 