KYTHORN 20: DRAGONDOWN 
This day in Kythorn is celebrated with bonfires and ritu­
als to ··tame" or "drive down" dragons. In Waterdeep, the 
celebrations take the form of parades that center around 
effigies built of wood and cloth and filled with straw. 
Each effigy is named and has a traditional depiction. for 
it represents one of a handful of dragons the city has 
faced in its history. After being paraded to a square near 
where the dragon was defeated or driven off. the enor­
mous effigy is burned. 
The height of the celebration comes when the effigy 
of Kistarianth the Red is burned on the slopes of Mount 
Waterdeep. A dracolich version of Kistarianth is then 
carried up the slopes and burned as well. These pro ­
ceedings symbolize the defeat of Kistarianth first by the 
paladin Athar, and again decades later by his son, Pier­
geiron. Tradition dictates that the winners of the races 
run during the Plowing and Running take the role of the 
dragons' slayers, with the champion of the chariot race 
representing Athar and the champion of the horse race 
playing Piergeiron. 
FLAMERU LE 1: f OUN DERS' DAY 
This day commemorates the birth of the city. The Field 
of Triumph is the site of illusory displays that chronicle 
the history ofWaterdeep, as well as martial exhibitions 
by the Guard and other worthies. Many festhalls spon­
sor Founders' Day costume contests, with prizes going 
to those who wear the best recreations of the garb of 
historical personages. 
Once banned as frivolous and distracting, the practice 
of veiling Castle Waterdeep with an illusion has been 
reinstated. Several mages come together to produce 
the effect, which seemingly transforms the castle into 
the ancient log fortress of Nimoar. The illusion typically 
lasts from midday to sunset (unless someone has the 
audacity and magical might to dispel it) and is regarded 
as a stunning work of magical art. 
FLAMERULE3-5:SORNYN 
Sornyn is a festival of both Waukeen and Lathander, 
and is used for planning business, making treaties and 
agreements, and receiving envoys from unknown lands 
and traditional foes. Much wine is drunk over this three­
day occasion when, as the saying goes, "My enemy is 
like family to me." If you are a newcomer to the city, this 
time is an excellent opportunity for you to engage with 
new partners in business or to gain financial support for 
some endeavor. My agreement to write Vo/o'.s Guide to 
Waterdeep was signed on a warm Sornyn evening many 
years ago, so who knows where your own initiative 
will take you? 
FLAMERULE 7: LLIIRA 'S NIGH T 
Originally a celebration held only in Waterdeep, this 
holiday has since spread up and down the Sword Coast. 
It has received a recent boost in popularity from the 
custom started in Baldur's Gate of lighting celeb ratory 
smokepowder fireworks - all purchased from Felogyr's 
Fireworks of that city, and utilized only by the City 
Guard, of course. This nightlong festival honors the 
Lady of joy with dances and balls throughout the city. 
CHAPTER 9 f VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRID ION 
Pink beverages, ranging from healthy juices to dead ly 
strong intoxicants, are imbibed. The boom and crackle 
of smokepowder explosions go off all night long, so you 
might as well stay up with the locals and enjoy the show. 
ELEAS IS l: A H GHAIRON'S DAY 
Many small rituals are held throughout this day, ded­
icated to honoring the first Open Lord. The Lords of 
Waterdeep toast Ahghairon and the Watchful Order, 
and guildmasters toast the Lords in Ahghairon's name. 
Commoners leave violets (Ahghairon's favorite Hower) 
around Ahghairon's Tower, on his statue in the City of 
the Dead, and atop the altars of the House of Wonder. 
Bards perform songs in honor of the wizard all over the 
city. The Open Lord visits taverns and inns through-
out Waterdeep to wish the people well- giving sho rt 
speeches, offering toasts to Ahghairon's memory, buying 
rounds of drinks, or paying for meals or accommoda­
tion. Needless to say, establishments of those sorts are 
generally full throughout the day. 
ELEINT 21: BRIC H TS WO RDS 
On this day, the City Guard, lhe City Navy, and the City 
Watch- all in glittering array - conduct parades, give 
demonstrations of martial skill, and stage mock battles. 
Those desiring to join their ranks are given a chance 
to demonstrate their prowess. usually with wooden 
practice weapons in contests against veteran soldiers. 
Makers and vendors of weapons sell their wares openly 
in the markets, experts who can hurl or juggle weapons 
show off their skills, and the wards compete in wres­
tling and boxing matches. The most anticipated part 
of the day is when horses are cleared from the Field of 
Triumph and the surrounding streets so that the Griffon 
Cavalry can perform aerial displays over the crowds in 
the stadium. Members of the Watchful Order present the 
cavalry with illusory foes to fight, allowing the griffon 
riders to engage in thrilling battles as the people watch. 
MA RPENOTH 3: D AY OF W ONDERS 
The imaginative inventions of the Gondar are revealed 
on this day and paraded through the city. These de­
vices range from something as humble as new cabinet 
hinges to massive mechanical constructs that walk 
or roll about. Failure is the paramour of invention, 
though, meaning it is a rare year when there isn't some 
notable disruption of the celebration. The Hying chair 
of Marchell was one such recent oddity- a device that 
worked marvelously on the way up but was incapable 
of descending. Marchell was rescued by the Griffon 
Cavalry, but his flying chair drifted away and was never 
seen again. 
MARPENOTH 7: STONESHAR 
Stoneshar is an all-faiths day during which folk strive 
not to be idle. Even children at play are encouraged to 
dig holes, build sand castles, or construct crude models. 
Waterdavians consider Stoneshar the best day of the 
year to begin construction of a building, either by dig­
ging out a cellar or laying a foundation. The common 
wisdom is that folk who undertake new projects on 
Stoneshar can expect blessings upon their works in 