the black mask symbol of Mask and the mirror face of 
the priests of Leira. But there are no bounds on the dis­
guise you don, and the more elaborate and outlandish it 
is, the more celebrated the wearer. 
The festivities begin in the evening, when people place 
candles in hollowed-out gourds or pumpkins carved 
with faces. Each pumpkin represents a person donning 
a mask, while the light inside represents the truth of 
the soul. For as long as the candle remains lit, lies told 
and embarrassing things done don't sully a person's 
reputation, so celebrations often descend briefly into an­
archic hedonism. 
Misfortune is said to come to anyone who returns to 
their pumpkin after celebrating to find it unlit, so buy a 
candle of good quality and put your gourd beyond reach 
of the wind. Intentionally blowing out someone else's 
candle or smashing someone else's pumpkin is taboo, 
and risks the wrath of both gods - yet it does occur. 
Tricks and pranks of all kinds are common on this 
night, and folk expect lies and foolishness. Pickpockets 
are rife on this day, so few carry much coin with them, 
having secreted it away somewhere the previous eve­
ning. Instead, people fill their pockets and belt pouches 
with candies. Traditionally , a pickpocket is meant to 
take the candy and leave a token in return (a tiny toy, 
a colorful paper folded into a shape, or the like), but 
this has changed over the years into adults exchanging 
candies among themselves and simply giving candy to 
children who ask for it. 
By custom, no deals are made nor contracts signed 
on Liar's Night, because no one trusts that parties will 
abide by them. Illusionists and stage magicians (whether 
through magical or practical abilities) make the rounds 
to entertain private parties (having been paid in advance 
the previous day) or to perform in public spaces, in the 
hopes that a good show will earn them a meal, and per­
haps a place at a private party in the future. 
UKTAR: SELUNE'S HALLOWING 
On whatever night in Uktar the moon is fullest, Waterda­
vians celebrate Selune's Hallowing. The goddess is the 
focus of worship throughout the full phase, of course, 
but the major ceremony on this night is a parade of wor­
shipers leaving the House of the Moon at moonrise and 
moving down to the harbor , where the high priestess 
wields the Wand of the Four Moons in a ceremony bless­
ing all navigators. This holy relic is said to be the mace 
wielded by Selilne in her first battle against Shar, and 
again in a fight with her sister during the Time of Trou­
bles. It miraculously appeared in Waterdeep after the 
Godswar, and has since been the focus of many divine 
signs. You can view it in the House of the Moon at other 
times of the year, but only from a well-guarded distance. 
If you're lucky, you might see the Wand of the Four 
Moons weep. Droplets said to be the tears of Se!Gne 
manifest on the mace from time to time, and are col­
lected by the priestesses for use in potions that can heal, 
cure lycanthropy, and be used as holy water. 
('HAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRTt>lON 
UKTAR 20: LAST SHEAF 
Sometimes called "The Small Feast," this day of res­
idential feasting is held in celebration of the year's 
bounty. Small gifts (traditionally hand kegs of ale, jars 
of preserves, or smoked fish and meats) are exchanged 
among neighbors, and "last letters" are galhered for 
carriage by ship captains and caravan merchants - so 
called because they are the last to leave the city before 
travel becomes difficult. Of Waterdeep's many celebra­
tions, this one is perhaps the most relaxed and relaxing. 
Plan to spend a little extra on good food and enjoy a 
meal with those nearest you, be they dearest hearts or 
the folk across the hall in the inn. 
NIGHTAL 11: HOWLDOWN 
In honor of Malar, members of the City Guard leave the 
city in groups on this day to hunt down known threats to 
farmers and travelers, including brigands, wolves, owl­
bears, ogres, and trolls that haunt the roads and wilder­
ness. These hunts typically last no longer than a tenday. 
During the same span of time, the City Watch engages 
in its own rigorous hunt for malefactors within the city 
walls. If you've any reason to doubt your standing in the 
eyes of the law, avoid Waterdeep for at least a tenday 
after Howldown. 
With no real hunting to do of their own, the children of 
Waterdeep spend Howldown engaging in mock hunts of 
adults dressed up as monsters, and play at the killing of 
these predators. 
NIGHTAL 20: SIMRIL 
When dusk comes on this day, folk go outside to locate 
particular stars that were lucky for their ancestors, or 
that were associated with their own births. They then 
attempt to stay up through the night, celebrating out­
side with bonfires, song, and warmed drinks. Cloudy 
nights often draw larger crowds than clear ones, since 
glimpsing your star through the haze is thought to be 
a blessing from Tymora. Inside buildings, service folk 
keep roaring fires and engage in making food to keep 
celebrants fed throughout the long night and into morn­
ing of the next day. 1 f you have no particular star of your 
own, you'll find many vendors of star maps willing to 
divine which is yours-based upon your place and date 
of birth-and to point you in the right direction for a 
shard or two. 
PARTING WORDS 
Well, gentle readers, you've reached the end of my en­
chiridion. If you've yet to arrive in the city, its splendors 
await you. If you're reading this within its walls, please 
set aside this chapbook to experience the city. You might 
even see an extraordinarily handsome author hard at 
work reviewing one of Waterdeep's drinking establish­
ments. II you do so, I greet you in advance: "Well met! 
Autographs cost seven nibs." 