SToNe OF" GoLORR 
(+3), and a score of 1 (- 5) in all other abilities, and it is 
immune to poison and psychic damage. 
lt travels to within 5 feet of its intended recipient by 
the most direct route, whereupon it turns into a non­
magical and inanimate sheet of parchment that can be 
unfolded only by the intended recipient. If the bird's hit 
points or speed is reduc ed to 0 or if it is otherwise im­
mobilized, it turns into ash. 
Paper birds usually come in small, flat boxes contain­
ing ld6 + 3 sheets of the parchment. 
RING OF TRUTH 'TELLING 
Ring, uncommon (requires attuncment) 
While wearing this ring, you have advantage on Wisdom 
(Insight) checks to determine whether someone is ly­
ing to you. 
SMOKEPOWDER 
Wondrous item, uncommon 
Smokepowder is a magical explos ive chiefly used to 
propel a bullet out of the barrel of a firearm. It is stored 
in airtight wooden kegs or tiny, waterproof leather 
packets. A packet contains enough smokepowder for 
five shots, and a keg holds enoug h smo kepowder for five 
hundr ed shots. 
If smokepowder is set on fire, dropped, or otherwise 
handl ed roughly, it explodes and dea ls fire damage to 
each creature or object within 20 feet of it: ld6 for a 
packet, 9d6 for a keg. A successful DC 12 Dexterity sav­
ing throw halves the damag e. 
Casting dispel magic on smokepowder renders it per­
manently inert. 
APP£NDIX A 1 MAGIC ITEMS 
STONE OF GOLORR 
Wondrous item, artifact (requires attunement) 
The Stone ofGolorr is a glossy, greenish-gray stone 
that fits in the palm of your hand. The s tone is actually 
an aboleth named Golorr, transformed by magic into 
an object. 
Random Properties. The Stone of Golorr has the 
following properties, determined by rolling on the tables 
in the "Artifacts" section in chapt er 7 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide: 
• 1 minor beneficial property 
• l minor detrimental property 
Legend Lore. The Ston e of Golorr has 3 charges and 
regains ld3 expended charges daily at dawn. While 
holding the stone, you can expend 1 of its charges to 
cas t the legend lore spell. 
By using the stone to cast legend lore, you comm uni­
cate directly with the aboleth, and it shares its knowl­
edge with you. The aboleth can't lie to you, but the infor­
mation it provides is often cryptic or vague. 
The aboleth koows where Lord Neverember's secret 
vault is located. It also knows that three keys are needed 
to open the vault and that a gold dragon named Aurinax 
inhabits the vault and guards its treasures. 
Failed Memory. When your attunement to the Stone 
of Colorr ends, you must make a DC 16 Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, you lose all memory of the stone 
being in your possession and all knowledge imparted 
by it. A remove curse spell cast on you has a 20 percent 
chance of restoring the lost knowledge and memories , 
and a greater restoration spe ll does so automat ically. 
Sentience . The Stone of Golorr is a sentient lawful 
evil magic ilem with an Intelligen ce or 18, a Wisdom of 
15, and a Charisma of 18. It has hearing and darkvision 
out to a range of 120 feet. It can com muni cate telepath­
ically with the creature that is attuned to it, as long as 
that creature understands at least one language. Io addi­
tion, the aboleth learns the greatest desires of any crea­
ture that commu nicates telepathi ca lly with the stone. 
The Stone ofGo lorr hungers for information and 
prefers not to rema in in the clutches of any creature for 
too long. Whenever the stone desires a new owner, it 
demand s to be given to another intellige nt creature as 
quickly as possible. If its demand s are ignored , it tries to 
take control of its owner (see "Se ntient Magic Items" in 
chap ter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). 
Perso nality. The Stone ofGolorr has an alien intellect 
that is both domineering and hun gry for knowledge. It 
thinks of itself as an ageless and immortal god. 
Des troying the Stone. While in stone form. the 
aboleth isn't a creature and isn't subject to effects that 
target creat ures. The Stone o!Colorr is immune to all 
damage. Casting an antipathy/sympathy spell on the 
s tone destroys it if the antipathy effect is selected and 
the spe ll is directed to repel aberrations. When the spell 
is cast in this way, the stone tran sforms into mucus 
and is destroyed. and Golorr the aboleth appears in an 
unocc upied space within 30 feet of the stone's remains. 
The aboleth is incensed by the stone's destruction, and it 
attacks all other creatures it can see. 