Tt-<E BLA C:K V1PER 
TH E BLAC K VIPER 
T he Black Viper was a notorio us burglar, pickpocket, 
mugger, and assassin who died a centu ry ago, after 
a long and nefar ious career. Esvele Rosznar, a brash 
young noble, has recently adopted the Black Viper's 
persona to lead a secret life of crime . Like many other 
nobles, Esvele gossips about the Black Viper's exploits 
to lend credence to the villain's mystique. 
The Rosznar family was convicted of slave trad ing­
highly illegal in Waterdeep and banished over a hun­
dred years ago, but has since returned. The Rosznars' 
inability to regain the respect they feel they deserve 
rankles them. The slave trade has continued in Arnn 
and elsewhere, and it's not like other noble houses don·t 
have skeletons in their closets. But just because of a lit­
tle family squabble that went public, the Rosznar name 
has been said with a sneer for a century. As part of the 
family's constant effort to prove this conception wrong 
and win others' respect, Esvele has been brought up 
to be the most proper noble possible, partaking in les­
sons of etiquette, dance, and poise as befits someone of 
her station. 
In her younger days, Esvele openly rebelled, but that 
behavior led to locked doors at night and house guards 
APPENDIX 8 I MONSTERS Ai':D NPCS 
watching her every move during the day. So she taught 
herself how to pick locks, pluck keys from belts and 
pouches, clamber up walls. and sneak past guards­
playing the perfect daughter by day while cutting loose 
at night. To hide her identity from those she met. she 
wore a hood and mask. exchanging her fine clothes for 
the kind of practical clothing her parents would never 
let her wear. 
One of the things Esvele has learned is to embrace 
the legend of the Black Viper. When she throws back 
her cloak to reveal the costume she has put together, 
most folk toss their purses and flee. If that doesn't work, 
she usually needs only to draw her dagger. Of course, 
some of the nobles she targets are made of sterner stuff, 
so Esvele has learned how to fight as well. She knows 
she's playing a dangerous game, but is satisfied that at 
least one member of the Rosznar family is earn ing the 
respect of Waterdeep's nobility. 
BLACK VIPER 
Medium humanoid (human), chaotic neutral 
Armor Class 16 (studded leather) 
Hit Points 84 (13d8 + 26) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
11 (+O) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
CON 
14 (+2) 
Saving Throws Dex +7, Int +3 
INT 
11 (+O) 
WIS 
11 (+O) 
CHA 
12 (+1) 
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +3, Perception +3, Sleight of 
Hand +7, Stealth +7 
Senses passive Perception 13 
Languages Common. thieves' cant 
Challenge S (1,800 XP) 
Cunning Action. On each of her turns, the Black Viper can use a 
bonus action to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action. 
Evasion. If the Black Viper is subjected to an effect that allows 
her to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, 
she instead takes no damage if she succeeds on the saving 
throw, and only half damage If she fails. She can't use this trait 
if she's incapacitated. 
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). The Black Viper deals an extra 14 (4d6) 
damage when she hits a target with a weapon attack and has 
advantage on the attack roll, or when the target is within S feet 
of an ally of the Black Viper that isn't incapacitated and the 
Black Viper doesn't have disadvantage on the attack roll. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The Black Viper makes three attacks with 
her rapier. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach S ft., one target. 
Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage. 
Hand Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 30/120 
ft., one target. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage. 
REACTIONS 
Uncanny Dodge. The Black Viper halves the damage that she 
takes from an attack that hits her. She must be able to see 
the attacker. 