JARLAXLE B AENRE 
j a rlaxle is a flamboyant, swashbuckling drow icono­
clast. He leads a renegad e drow faction called Bregan 
D'aerthc, made up of disenfranchised male drow, most 
of them culled from destroy ed or disgraced houses. 
Gifted with a sharp mind, a sense of humor, puissant 
s kill with a blade, and a wealth of useful magic items, 
Jarlaxl e infiltrated the city of Luskan, brought a kind 
of order to its lawlessness , and declared himself its 
secret lord. 
Jarl axle likes to weave a tangled web of schemes that 
leave his enemies baffled- the latest of which is a plan to 
legitimize Luskan by making it a member of the Lords' 
Alliance. The city's unsavory reputation has thwarted 
all previous efforts, and the current leaders of the Lords' 
Alliance have voiced their opposition to Luskan's ad­
mittanc e. A few have flatly declared that the city will 
never be welcome in the alliance. Nonetheless,Jarlaxle 
aims to persuade Laeral Silverhand, the Open Lord of 
Waterdeep, to champion Luskan's cause even if that 
means losing other alliance memb ers in the process. 
j A RLAXLE BAENRE 
Medium humanoid (elf), c~aotic neutral 
Armor Class 24 (+3 leather armor, Suave Defense) 
Hit Points 123 (19d8 + 38) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
12 (+l) 
DEX 
22 (+6) 
CON 
14 (+2) 
Saving Throws Dex+ ll, Wis +8 
INT 
20 (+5) 
WIS 
16 (+3) 
CHA 
19 (+4) 
Skills Acrobatics +11, Athletics +6, Deception +14, Perception 
+8, Sleight of Hand +11, Stealth +16 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 18 
Languages Abyssal, Common, Draconic, Dwarvish, Elvish, 
Undercommon 
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP) 
Special Equipment. jarlaxle wears +3 leather armor, a hat of 
disguise, a bracer of flying daggers (see appendix A), a cloak of in­
visibility, a knave's eye patch (see appendix A), and a ring of truth 
telling (see appen dix A). He wields a +3 rapier and carries a por­
table hole and a wand of web. His hat is adorned with a feather 
of diatryma summoning (see appendix A). 
Evasion. lfhe is subjected to an effect that allows him to make 
a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, Jarlaxle 
instead takes no damage ifhe succeeds on the saving throw, 
and only half damage if he fails. He can't use this trait if he's 
incapacitated. 
Fey Ancestry. jarlaxle has advantage on saving throws against 
being charmed, and magic can't put him to sleep. 
Innate Spellcasting. Jarlaxle's innate spellcasting ability is 
Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). He 
can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material 
components: 
At will: dancing lights 
1/day each: darkness, faerie fire, levitote (self only) 
APPENDIX B) MONSTERS AND NPCS 
Tying Luskan's fortunes to those of Waterdeep would 
increasejarlaxle's political and economic power on the 
Sword Coast. 
Jarlaxle has come to Waterdeep in the guise of an 
llluskan human named Zardoz Zord. "Captain Zord" 
is the master of the Sea Maidens Faire, a carnival that 
travels up and down the Sword Coast in three ships: 
the Eyecatche r. the Heartbreaker, and the Hellraiser 
(all words that describejarlaxle). He spends most of 
his time aboa rd the Eyecatcher, his personal ship. The 
other two vessels carry members of the carniva l and 
their parade wagons. 
jarlaxle has forged an alliance with Lantan (an island 
to the south), and has armed his Bregan D"aerthe lieu­
tenants with Lantanese firearms that rely on magical 
smokepowder to function. He has also acquired a Lan­
tanese submarine ca lled the Scarlet Marpenoth. This 
underwater vessel is mounted below the Eyecatcher and 
kept out of sight. Jarlaxle plans on using the submarine 
to flee Waterdeep if his scheme unravels. 
jarlaxle's loyalties are to himself first and foremost, 
and to Bregan D'aerthe secondarily. 
Legendary Resistance (1/ Day). If Jarlaxle fails a saving throw, he 
can choose to succeed instead. 
Master Attuner. )arlaxle can attune to up to five magic items, 
and he can attune to magic items that normally require attune­
ment by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard. 
Sneak Attack (1/Turn). Jarlaxle deals an extra 24 (7d6) damage 
when he hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage 
on the attack roll, or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally 
of )arlaxle's that isn't incapacitated and )arlaxle doesn't have 
disadvantage on the attack roll. 
Suave Defense. While jarlaxle is wearing light or no armor and 
wielding no shield, his AC includes his Charisma modifier. 
Sunlight Sensitivity. When not wearing his knave's eye patch, 
jarlaxle has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
A CTIO NS 
Multiatta ck. jarlaxle makes three attacks with his +3 rapier or 
two attacks with daggers created by his bracer of flying daggers. 
+3 Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +14 to hit, reach 5 ft., one tar­
get. Hit: 13 (1d8 + 9) piercing damage . 
Flying Dagger. Ranged Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, range 20/60 
ft., one target. Hit: 8 (ld4 + 6) piercing damage. 
LEGENDARY ACTIONS 
)arlaxle can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the op­
tions below. Only one legendary action option can be used at 
a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. jarlaxle 
regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn. 
Quick Step. jarlaxle moves up to his speed without provoking 
opportunity attacks. 
Attack (Costs 2 Actions). )arlaxle makes one attack with his +3 
rapier or two attacks with daggers created by his bracer of 
flying daggers. 