L AERAL SILVERHAN D 
Anamanue Laeral Silverhand was born in the Year of 
the Cowl (765 DR), the fifth of seven daughters of the 
goddess Mystra. Each of the Seven Sisters is a powerful 
and ageless beauty with a penchant for arcane magic. 
Long ago. Laeral ruled a kingdom called Stornanter 
and held the title of Witch-Queen of the North. After 
that, she led a band of adventurers called the Nine. She 
met and married Khelben Arunsun, who would later 
become the Blackstaff, the Lord Mage of Waterdeep. 
After Khelben died, Laeral retired from public life. She 
resurfaced after the Spellplague and the Sundering, 
weakened by Mystra's death, rebirth, and withdrawal 
from the world. 
Laeral's magic isn't as great as it once was, though she 
does her utmost to bide this fact. Only El minster, her 
trusted friend and advisor, knows the extent of her de­
cline. Despite her diminished abilities, Laeral remains a 
LAERAL SILVERHAND 
Medium humanoid (human). chaotic good 
Armor Class 18 (robe of the arch magi) 
Hit Points 228 (24d8 + 120) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
13 (+1) 
DEX 
17 (+3) 
CON 
20 (+S) 
Saving Throws Int +11, Wis +11 
INT 
20 (+S) 
WIS 
20 (+S) 
CHA 
19 (+4) 
Skills Arcana +17, History +17, Insight +11, Perception +11, 
Persuasion +10 
Damage Resistan ces fire 
Damage Immunities poison 
Condition Immunities poisoned 
Senses trues1ght 60 ft., passive Perception 21 
language s Common , Draconic, Dwarvish, Elvish, Giant, 
Infernal 
Challenge 17 (18,000 XP) 
Special Eq11ipment. la era I wears a white robe of the arch magi 
(accounted for in her statistics). She wields a flame tongue 
longsword. 
Magic Resistance. While wearing her robe of the archmagi, 
lae ral has advantage on saving throws against spells and other 
magical effects. 
Spellcasting. Laeral is a 19th-level spe llcaster. Her spellcasting 
ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 21, + 13 to hit with spell at· 
tacks). Laeral has the following wizard spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): light, mage hand, minor illusion, prestidigita-
tion, ray of frost 
1st level (at will): detect magic, disguise self. magic missile, shield 
2nd level (at will): detect thoughts, invisibility, misty step 
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell,fly, sending, tongues 
4th level (3 slots) : banishment, greater invisibility, Otiluke's resil-
ient sphere 
5th level (3 slots) : cone of cold, geas, Rory's telepathic bond 
6th level (2 slots): globe of inv11lnerobility, mass s11ggestion 
7th level (1 slot): prismatic spray, teleport 
8th level (1 slot): feeblemind, power word st11n 
9th level (1 slot): time stop 
formidable, clear-headed wizard with plenty of magic at 
her disposal. 
A few years ago, Dagu lt Neverember was ousted as 
Open Lord of Watcrdeep. Laeral reluctantly stepped 
into the vacancy at the request of the Masked Lords, 
and has served as Waterdeep's Open Lord ever since. 
Initially overwhelmed by the demands of the nobles and 
guildmasters, she has settled nicely into her new role. 
She uses her magic sparingly and relics on trusted ad­
visors and deputies. As time allows, she likes to venture 
outside the Palace ofWaterdeep in disguise, just to clear 
her head or check up on old friends (and enemies). 
Laeral's relationship with Vajra Safa hr, the current 
Blackstaff. has its challenges. For one thing, Laeral 
is much older, much wiser, and much more powerful 
than Vajra, whom she views as an insecure child. fn 
addition, Vajra wields the Blackstaff. which has Khelben 
Arunsun's sou l and the souls of all the other Blackstaffs 
bound inside it. Laeral covets the staff, because it con -
ACTIO NS 
M11ltiattack. Laeral makes three attacks with her silver hair and 
flame tongue, in any combination. She can cast one of her can­
trips or l st-level spells before or after ma king these at tacks. 
Silver Hair. Me/ee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach S ft ., one 
target. Hit: 7 (2d6) force damage, and the ta rget must succee d 
on a DC 19 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for l 
minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
Flame Tongue. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: S (l d8 + 1) slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire dam­
age, o r 6 (1dl0 + 1) slas hing damage plus 7 (2d6) fire damage 
when used with two hands. 
Spe/ljire (Recharges after a Long Rest). Magical, heatless, silver 
fire harmlessly erupts from Laeral and surrounds her unt il she 
is incapacitated or until she uses an action to quench it. She 
gains one of the following benefits of her choice , which lasts 
unt il the silver fire ends: 
• She can breathe underwater. 
• She can survive without food and water. 
• She is immune to magic that would ascertain her thoughts, 
truthfulness, alignment , or creature type. 
• She gains resistance to cold damage , and she is unharmed by 
temperatures as low as -SO degrees Fahrenheit. 
While the silver fire is present, she has the following additional 
action options: 
• Cast the cure wounds spell. The target regains 1d8 + 5 hit 
points. After Laeral takes this act ion, roll a d6. On a roll of l , 
the silver fire disappears. 
• Cast the revivify spell without mater ial components. After 
Laeral takes this action , roll a d6. On a roll of 1- 2, the silver 
fire disappears. 
• Release a 60-foot line of silver fire that is 5 feet wide or a 30-
foot cone of silver fire. Objects in the area that aren't being 
worn or carried take 26 (4dl 2) fire damage. Each creature in 
the area must succeed on a DC 21 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 26 (4d12) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. After laeral takes this action, 
roll a d6. On a roll of 1-3, the silver fire disap pea rs. 
APPENDIX B I MONSTERS AND NPCS 