208 
LAE RAL S ILYERHAND 
tains all that's left of her husband. Not surpris ingly, the 
two mages avoid each other as much as possible. 
In times of great need, Laeral can command Vajra 
to unleash Force Grey. Until that order is given, Force 
Grey isn't allowed to conduct operat ions in Waterdeep, 
thou gh Laeral's spies tell her that Vajra has secretly 
activated members of the elite order and sent them on a 
number of unauth orized missions. Lae ral is reluctant to 
confront Vajra on the matter, and rationalizes her inac­
tion by framing it as a test ofVajra's com petence. 
i\PP 'ENDIX B I MONSTERS AND NPCS 
MANSHOON 
Referred to in this adventure simply as "Manshoon," this 
clone of the ancient archwizard infiltrated Waterdeep 
years ago and has been hiding out in Kolat Towers ever 
since, in the city's Southern Ward. 
The original Manshoon was one of the founders of the 
Zhentar im. Evil to the core, he mad e enemies all across 
Faertin, including other powerful spellcaste rs such as 
Khelben Arunsun and Elminster. Fearing that he might 
be destroyed by his foes, Manshoon magically crafted 
several clones-but a mishap caused all of them to be 
awakened at once, whereupon they tried to destroy one 
another in a series of conflicts that came to be known as 
the Manshoon Wars. 
Now the orig inal Manshoon is dead , and it's widely be­
lieved that all his clones were destroyed as well. In fact, 
at least thr ee are still alive. The one presently in Water­
deep escaped death by hiding out in Undermo untain , 
where he eventually ran afoul ofHalaster Blackcloak . 
After a brief spe ll duel, Ha laster captured Manshoon 
and amputated his left a rm at the elbow for reasons un­
known . Manshoon escaped imprisonm ent and fled Un­
dermo untain, taking refuge in the city above. Attemp ts 
to magica lly regenerate his severed limb failed, forcing 
him to craft an artificial arm and hand for himself. 
Manshoon took cont rol of Kolat Towers, a crumbling 
residence in the Southern Ward that was abandoned 
years ago by the two wizards who built it. The edifice is 
surrounded by a magica l barr ier that has the properties 
of a wall of force . Manshoon rarely leaves the towers 
and uses a telepo rtation circle when he must do so, and 
thus is never seen entering or leaving. 
Manshoon aims to ru le Waterdeep and replace the 
City Watch with Black Network mercenaries that are 
loyal to him alone . By bribing and blackmailing the 
Masked Lords , he hopes to oust Laeral Silverhand as 
Open Lord and take her place, kill the Blackstaff, reduce 
the Masked Lords to mere vassals, and declare himself 
the Wizard-King ofWate rdeep. Once the city is firmly in 
his clutches, Manshoon will then turn his attention to­
ward Undermountain, dest roy Halaster once and for all, 
and claim the dungeon's riches. 
MANSHOON SIMULACRUM 
Manshoon uses the simulacrum spell to create a magi­
cal duplicate of hims elf as needed. He has customized 
the spell to increas e his s imulacrum's bit points at the 
expense of its spe llcasting ability. 
Manshoon can have only one simulacrum at any given 
time, and he uses it as a subordin ate to comm and his 
Zhentar im minions in the field. If his simulac rum is de­
stroyed, Manshoon creates another. Each simulacrum 
has the statistics of Manshoon , with these changes : 
• The sim ulacrum has no specia l equipment. Conse­
quently, it has AC 12 and lacks the Magic Resistance 
trait and the Staff of Power action option. 
It loses all spell slots of 6th level and higher . 
• It has a challenge rating of 8 (3,900 XP). 