THE YAWNING PORTAL 
The Yawning Portal is a famous inn and tavern located 
in the Castle Ward ofWaterdeep. Adventurers can meet 
all sorts of colorful characters here. 
The place is a stone building with a slate roof and 
several chimneys. Most of the ground floor is taken 
up by the tavern's common room, which contains a 
40-foot-diameter open well (actua lly the outer shell of a 
sunken stone tower) that descends 140 feet to the first 
level of Undermountain, the sprawling dungeon under 
Waterdeep. A rope-and-pulley mechan ism is used to 
lower adventurers into the well and hoist them out. More 
information about this entrance to Undermountain can 
be found in Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage. 
The upper floors of the Yawning Portal contain com­
fortable. nicely appointed rooms for guests. 
Durnan, the proprietor, charges standard prices for 
food, drink, and lodging (see chapter 5 of the Player's 
Handbook for costs). 
FA MILIAR FACES 
Give the Yawning Portal Familiar Faces handout in 
appendix C to the players, and allow each of them to 
select one NPC as a friendly acquaintance - someone 
the player's character knows and trusts. More than one 
player can select the same NPC. The information below 
should be withheld from the players until their charac­
ters learn il. 
DU RNA N 
N male llluskan human innkeeper 
The proprietor of the Yawning Portal is a retired adven­
turer and a man of few words. Durnan (see appendix B) 
bluntly warns adventurers of lower than 5th level that 
entering Undermountain "isn't a good idea."' He keeps 
a magic greatsword hidden behind the bar just in case 
something monstrous crawls up out of the entry well. 
" B ONNIE" 
N doppelganger disguised as Tethyrian human barmaid 
This doppelganger posing as a friendly barmaid is the 
leader of a gang of five doppelgangers that arrived in 
Watcrdeep over a year ago. To help the gang make ends 
meet, she works for Durnan as a barmaid. Mattrim 
Mereg (see below) knows her secret. 
MATTRIM "THREESTRINGS" MEREG 
LG male !Uuskan human bard 
This socially awkward bard (see appendix B) performs 
at the Yawning Portal and is a better musician than 
he pretends to be. He's called "Threestrings" because 
he plays a lute that has only three strings remaining. 
His secret is that he's a Harper spy, and he's far more 
eloquent and composed than he lets on. He lives at the 
inn, where he spends his afternoons and evenings spy­
ing on Zhentarim agents and gathering information on 
other potential troublemakers. He recently befriended 
Bonnie and wants to help her doppelganger gang settle 
into the city. 
I NTR.ODUCT I ON 
jALESTER SILVERMANE 
LG male Chondathan human lighter 
Jaleste r Silverman e (see appendix B) is an agent of the 
Lords' Alliance who reports directly to Laeral Silver­
hand. The Open Lord of Waterdeep has asked him to 
spy on adventurers who might, through their actions, aid 
or imperil the city and its citizens. Since the Yawning 
Porta l attracts adventurers of all sorts,Jalester spends a 
lot of time here, usually seated by himself in a quiet cor­
ner. Durnan knows thatjalester works for Laeral and 
leaves the young man alone. 
Jalester is often distracted by thoughts of Faerrel Dun­
blade, his boyfriend, who was killed in a street fight last 
year. When not engaged in alliance business. jalester is 
lonely and looking for love. 
MELO ON WARDRAGON 
NE male Chondathan human adventurer under the 
control of an intellect devourer 
Meloon Wardragon (see appendix B) comes across as 
a cheery, optimistic, warm-hearted man eager to fight 
alongside those he considers his friends. The Yawning 
Portal staff and many of the regular guests know that 
Meloon is a skilled fighter with ties to Force Grey. 
An intellect devourer in league with Xanathar ate 
Meloon's brain several months ago. Now under the mon­
ster's control, Meloon actively discourages adventurers 
from exploring Undermountain and urges them to focus 
on conflicts in the city instead. He also hunts down and 
kills Zhentarim operatives for his secret beholder mas­
ter. He has his eye on Davil Starsong (see appendix B) 
but won't kill the elf in plain view of witnesses. 
0BAYA UDAY 
NG female Chu/tan human priest of Waukeen 
Obaya, a priest. bas traveled from Chult to sponsor ex­
peditions into Undermountain, with the goal of bringing 
its magical treasures back to her employer, the mer­
chant prince Wakanga O'tamu of Port Nyanzaru. She 
discou rages low-level adventurers from exploring Un­
dermountain but is happy to help them with her magic 
until they gain enough experience to be useful to her. 
If you plan to run Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad 
Mage after this adventure, Obaya can take on a more 
prominent role as an advisor and a source of quests. 
YAGRA STONEFIST 
N female half-ore thug-for-hire 
Yagra is a Black Network mercenary who gets paid to 
protect a Zhent negotiator named Davil Starsong (see 
appendix B for more information on him). Yagra finds 
the job boring and likes to pass the time by challenging 
adventurers to arm wrestle. (Resolve such contests 
using contested Strength checks.) If the characters 
express their opposition to the Xanathar Guild, Yagra 
might urge them to speak to Davil about joining forces 
with the Zhentarim to destroy the beholder crime lord. 
Yagra is a half-ore thug. When reduced to 0 hit points, 
she drops to 1 bit point instead (but can't do this again 
until she finjshes a long rest). She has darkvision out to 
a range of 60 feet. She speaks Common and Ore. 