TREASURE 
Mirt bas access to magic items of all kinds. but keeps 
only a few on his person. He can equip himself with 
other magic items as the need arises. 
In addition to his other magical gear, Mirt owns a 
Lord's ensemble (see appendix A). He dons the ensem ­
ble only when meeting with other Masked Lords in an 
official capacity. 
MIRT 
Medium humanoid (human), chaotic good 
Armor Class 16 (bracers of defense) 
Hit Points 153 (18d8 ± 72) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
18 (+4) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
CON 
18 (+4) 
Saving Throws Dex +8, Wis +S 
INT 
15 (+2) 
•• 
WIS 
12 (+1) 
CHA 
15 (+2) 
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +8, Perception +S, Persuasion 
+6, Stealth +8 
Senses passive Perception 15 
Languages Common , Dwarvish 
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) 
Special Equipment. Mirt wears bracers of defense and a ring of 
regeneration. He wields a +I longsword and a +1 dagger. 
Brute. A melee weapon deals o ne extra die of its damage when 
Mirt hits with it (included in the attacks below). 
Evasion. lfhe is subjected to an effect that allows him to 
make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, Mirt 
instead takes no damage if he succeeds on the saving throw, 
and only half damage if he fails. He can't use this trait if he's 
incapacitated. 
Sneak Atta ck (1/Turn). Mirt deals an extra 14 (4d6) damage 
when he hits a target with a weapon attack and has advantage 
on the attack roll. or when the target is within 5 feet of an ally of 
Mirt's that isn't incapacitated and Mirt doesn't have disadvan­
tage on the attac k roll. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. Mirt makes three attacks: two with his +7 long· 
sword and one with his +7 dagger. 
+1 Longsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft .. one 
target. Hit: 14 C2d8 + 5) slashing damage , or 16 (2d10 + 5) 
slashing damage when used with two hands. 
+1 Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 
5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) piercing 
dam age when used as a melee weapon, or 7 (ld 4 + 5) piercing 
damage when used as a rang ed weapon. 
REACTIONS 
Parry. Mirt adds 2 to his AC against one melee attack that 
would hit him. To do so, Mirt must see the attacker and be 
wielding a me lee weapon. 
NA R'L XIBRIN DAS 
Xanathar's advisor is a nervous and conniv ing male 
drow named Nar'I Xibrindas. Nar'l's house was wiped 
out long ago, but he and his elder brother Soluun sur­
vived and joined Bregan D'aerthe. A year ago, Nar'I was 
given the difficult task of infiltrating the Xanathar Guild 
and getting as close to the beholder as possible. Not only 
did he succeed, but in the course of gaining Xanathar's 
trust, he managed to convince the beholder to eliminate 
its other advisors. The beholder's paranoia will even­
tua lly cause Xanathar to question the dro w's loyalty, 
though, and Nar'I has become increasingly worried 
about his future. If forced to decide between himself and 
Bregao D'aerthe, he'll choose the former and betray his 
drow allies to save his own skin. 
Xanathar is aware that something is off with Nar'I, 
and recently assigned him a grell bodyguard. The grell 
has instructions to dispose of Nar'I at the first sign of 
disloyalty. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Nar' I Xibrindas is a drow mage. He prepares and casts 
the sending spell whenever he needs to communicate 
with his brother. [n addition to his other gear, Nar'I 
carr ies a vial containing three doses of eyescratch, a 
contact poison. A creature that comes into contact with 
the poison must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving 
throw or be poisoned for 1 hour and blinded while poi­
soned in this way. A lesser restoration spell or similar 
magic ends the effect. 
..PPl!NDO< BI MONSTERS ANO NPCS 21 