NIM &LE WR IG ... T 
N O SKA UR'GRAY 
Noska is a ruthless enforcer in the Xanathar Guild. A 
green slime in Undermountain dissolved his left hand 
and forearm, and the lost appendage has been replaced 
with a heavy crossbow that attaches to the stump. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Noska Ur'gray is a shield dwarf thug, with 
these changes: 
Noska is neutral evil. 
He has these racial traits : His walking speed is 25 
feet. He has advantage on saving throws againsc poi­
son and resistance to poison damage. He has dark­
vision out to a range of 60 feet. He speaks Common 
and Dwar vish. 
He has disadvantage on Strength checks made to 
climb, due to his disability. 
0ROND GRALHUND 
The Gralhunds are nobles who trade in arms and 
mercenaries, and whose family motto is "We see both 
s ides." Orond is the patriarch, but he's not a quick-think­
ing or cultured sort - and deep down, he knows it. He 
leaves most of the plotting and socia lizing to his wife, 
Yalah, to whom he is devoted. 
When several of the Masked Lords were assassinated 
in quick succession some years ago. Lord Gralhund had 
expected his wife to fill one of the vacanc ies. That never 
happened, though, despite many promises and bribes. 
After she was passed over, Orond became insanely an­
gry, and he has remained that way ever since . 
Less than a year ago, the Gralhunds were approached 
by agents of the Zhentarim loyal lo Manshoon, and the 
nobles formed an alliance with them. House Gralhund 
gives the Zhents coin and allows them to use the fami­
ly's noble villa as a refuge. In exchange, the house reaps 
all the benefits that the Black Network offers, including 
intelligence that its spies have gathered. So while the 
Zhents use House Gra lhund as a sh ield, the Gralhunds 
are using the Zhenls to ascertain the identities and 
weakness es of the Masked Lords. 
Orond doesn't fully grasp how entwin ed the Black 
Network and his family have become it is now next to 
impossible to sepa rate one from the othe r. lfs no secret 
in Waterdeep that the Black Networ k has firmly rooted 
itself in House Gra lhund. But what's not gene rally 
known is thal the Zhents in House Gra lhund are agents 
of Manshoon. Neither Orond nor any other member of 
his family knows about the wizard's clone. As far as 
Orond and his wife are concerned, the local leade rs 
of the Black Network (with Urstu l Floxin chief among 
them) reside with them in the family villa. 
Orond is a short, stocky man who dresses well and is 
easy on the eyes. When he opens his mouth, his boorish 
natur e, inflated sense of self-importance, fragile ego, 
and des picab le opinions about "the commo n rabble" 
come to the fore, and his charm quick ly dissipates. 
When not in his wife's company, he is prone to excessive 
boasting and temper tantrums. When he must speak 
to strangers, he keeps his half-ore bodyguard Hrabbaz 
close by, for fear that others might attack and rob him at 
.\PPENDIX 8 MONSTE RS A~D NPC S 
2 1 