OTT 5 TEELTOES 
any moment. While in Yalah's presence, Orond becomes 
an altogether different person: quiet, almost timid, and 
happy to let his wife have the spotlight. 
Orond relies on Yalah to manage the Zhentarim. He 
spends his days watching mercenaries train, paying 
bills, and ranting about the cost of doing business in the 
city. Although he is human, Orond was born with a tief­
ling's tail. The tail was amputated when he was a young 
boy, but the scar on his backside rema ins. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Orond Gralhund is a Tethyrian human noble, with 
these changes: 
• Orond is neutral evil. 
• He has an Intelligence of 9 (-1). 
• Never one to bother learning other languages, he 
spea ks only Common. 
O SVALDO C ASSALANTER 
Ammalia and Victoro Cassalanter traded the soul of 
their eldest child for power. Stripped of his humanity, 
' Osvaldo was chained up in Cassalanter Villa and slowly 
transformed into a devil (and an insane one at that). 
Now a creatu re of pure evil and hate, he has no hope of 
regaini ng what was taken from him. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Osvaldo is a chain devil. 
\PPENDIX B l MONSTERS AND NPCS 
OTT STEELTOES 
The dwarf Ott Steeltoes has the nerve-wracking task of 
tending to Xanathar's pet fish, Sylgar. In his spare time, 
he worships Zuggtmoy, the demon queen of fungi, and 
cultivates mushrooms, spores, and molds. He wears a 
leather skullcap stitched with fake beholder eyestalks. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Ott is a shield dwarf cultist , with these changes: 
• Ott is chaotic evil. 
He has these racial traits: His walking speed is 25 
feet. He has advantage on saving throws against poi­
son and resistance to poison damage. He has dark­
vision out to a range of 60 feet. He speaks Common 
and Dwarvish . 
He has an Inte lligence of 6 (-2) and Religion +O. 
REMALLIA HAVENTREE 
Medium humanoid (elf), chaotic good 
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor) 
Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
10 (+O) 
DEX 
14 (+2) 
CON 
13 (+1) 
INT 
18 (+4) 
WIS 
15 (+2) 
CHA 
17 (+3) 
Saving Throws Int +8, Wis +6 
Skills Arcana +8, Deception +7, History +8, Persuasion +7 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Draconic, Dwarvish, Elvish, Halfling 
Challenge 9 (S,000 XP) 
Special Equipment. Remallia has a figurine of wondrous power 
(silver raven). 
Fey Ancestry. Rema Ilia has advantage on saving throws against 
being charmed, and magic can't put her to sleep. 
Spellcasting. Remallia is a 13th-level spellcaster. Her spellcast ­
ing ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell 
attacks). She has the following wizard spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): dancing lights, mage hand, mending, message, 
ray of frost 
1st level (4 slots): alarm,* mage armor,* magic missile, shield* 
2nd level (3 slots): arcane lock,* invisibility 
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell,'~ dispel magic,* fireball 
4th level (3 slots): banishment,* stoneskin* 
Sth level (2 slots): cone of cold, wall of force 
6th level (1 slot): flesh to stone, globe of invulnerability* 
7th level (1 slot): symbol,* teleport 
*Abjuration spell of 1st level or higher 
Arcane Ward. Remallia has a magical ward that has 30 hit 
points. Whenever she takes damage, the ward takes the dam­
age instead. If the ward is reduced to 0 hit points, Remallia 
takes any remaining damage. When Remallia casts an abjura­
tion spe ll of 1st level or higher, the ward regains a number of 
hit points equal to twice the level of the spell. 
ACTIONS 
Dagger. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. or range 
20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (ld4 + 2) piercing damage. 
... 