REMALLIA HAVENTREE 
Remallia (Remi to her friends) is the lady of Hous e 
Ulbrinte r and a guiding light for the Harpers in Water­
deep. She became an active force for good in the city 
after assassins killed her husband. Arthagast Ulbrinter, 
and destroyed his remains . A s un elf, she has two adult 
children (a half-elf son named Arthius, who is studying 
music in Silverymoon, and a half-elf daughter named 
Serenore, who lives on the Moonshae island of Alaron 
with her husband and daughter). Lady Haventree retain s 
a handful of loyal servants and spies. 
Remi holds secret Harper meetings in her villa, which 
is wa rded by all manner of spells. She uses a silver 
raven figurin e of wondrous power to deliver messages to 
Harpe r spies scattered throughout the city. 
RENAER NEVEREMBER 
Renaer is the estranged son of Dagult Neverember, the 
former Open Lord ofWaterdeep and the current Lord 
of Neverwinter. Father and son detest one another. and 
Renaer is least happy when he finds himself forced to 
dea l with some mess his father left behind. Qualitie s 
that both share include strikin g good looks, a love of 
drink, and a flair for diplomacy. What Renaer lacks is 
his father's belligerence. ill temper, and bad judgment. 
Renaer lives off a sizable inheritance left to him by 
his mother. Approaching middle age. he has given up 
adventuring and settled down somewhat. As a Harper, 
he spends a lot of time defending Waterdav ians against 
those who. like his father, would deprive them of their 
coin and rights. He owns Neverember House. a four­
story residence in the Sea Ward. Renaer spends as little 
time there as possible. however, since iCs constantly un­
der surveillance by spies loyal to his father. His friends 
have an open invitation to use the house as they please. 
while Renacr spends most of his free time in tavern s 
and festhalls. 
Some believe that Renaer's estrangement from his 
father is nothing but an act. and that anyone who bears 
the Neverember name is an enemy of Waterdeep. 
Renaer just shakes his head at such accusations and 
gets on with his life. He has many powerful friends to 
watch bis back. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Renaer Nevercmber is an Illuskan human who has 
the statistics of a swas hbuckler (see page 216). with 
these changes: 
• Renaer is chaotic good. 
• He speaks Common. 
SAETH CROMLEY 
Saeth Cromley is a retired sergeant of the City Watch, a 
likable fellow with a sharp, sarcastic wit. He occasion­
ally comes out of retirement at the request of Barnibus 
Blastwind, and he assists the mage in investigating 
unusual crimes in the city. Cromley helps Barnibus 
relate to the common folk. and he is good at coaxing 
information out of them. Though Cromley was once a 
strict proponent of Watch regulations and dress codes, 
he has grown a bit lax in both matters now that he's offi­
cially retired. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Saeth Cromley is an Illuskan human veteran . with 
these changes: 
• Saeth is lawful good . 
• He has a Charisma of 14 and Intimidation +4. 
He speaks Common. 
APP'ENIHX 8 I MONSTE RS A:-ID NPCS 