216 
SWASHBUCKLER 
Swashbucklers are charming ne'er-do-wells who live 
by their own codes of honor. They crave notoriety, often 
indulge in romantic trysts, and eke out livings as pirates 
and corsairs, rarely staying in one place for too Jong. 
TuORVIN TwI NBEAR D 
Thorvin serves as Xanathar's chief eng ineer and 
trapsmit h. He also serves the Harpers as a paid infor­
mant, keeping that faction apprised of Xanathar's plans 
as well as he can . Thorvin uses the ruse of maintenance 
inspections to cover up secret meetings he holds with 
Harper spies in Sku II port and elsewher e. 
Thorvin wears iron-rimmed spectacles and carries a 
large, heavy wrench that doubles as a club. He also ca r­
ries mason's tools, smith's tools, and thieves' tools, and 
has proficiency with all three. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Thorvin is a shie ld dwarf com m oner, with 
these cha nges: 
Thorvin is lawful neutral. 
• He has these racial traits: His walking speed is 25 
feet. He has advantage on saving throws against poi­
son and resistance to poison damage. He has dark­
vision out to a range of 60 feet. He speaks Common 
and Dwarvish. 
He has an Intelligence of 16 (+3). 
SWASHBUCKLER 
Medium humanoid (any race), any non-lawful alignment 
Armor Class 17 (leather armor) 
Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
12 (+1) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
CON 
12 (+1) 
INT 
14 (+2) 
WIS 
11 (+O) 
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +S, Persuasion +6 
Senses passive Perception 10 
Languages any one language (usually Common) 
Challenge 3 (700 XP) 
CHA 
15 (+2) 
Lightfooted. The swashbuckler can take the Dash or Disengage 
action as a bonus action on each of its turns. 
Suave Defense. While the swashbuckler is wearing light or 
no armor and wielding no shield, its AC includes its Cha­
risma modifier. 
ACT ION S 
Mu/tiattack. The swashbuckler makes three attacks: one with a 
dagger and two with its rapier. 
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach S ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) piercing damage. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 8 (ld 8 + 4) piercing damage. 
APPENDIX B I MONSTERS AND NPCS 
URSTUL FLOXI N 
Urstul Floxin works for Manshoon, and he is the high­
est-ranking member of the Zhentarim squa d stationed 
at House Gralhund. Urstul is a glorified thug with all 
the charm and breeding of a snake, but the Gralh unds 
tolerate him because he feeds them useful information 
culled from his spies throughout the city. UrstuJ takes 
his orders from Manshoon's current simulacrum, which 
comes and goes from House Gralhund by way of a tele­
portation circle (connected to the circle in Kolat Towers). 
Urstul is a large , heavyset man in his forties . He 
storms about House Gralhun d like he owns the place. 
He has a collect ion of black flying snakes that he uses 
as cou riers to deliver messages to underlings through­
out the city. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Urstu l Floxin is an Illuskan human assassin , with 
these changes: 
Urstu l is lawfuJ evil. 
• He speaks Common and Ore and knows thieves' cant. 
VAJRA SAFAHR 
Vajra is a capable wizard in her mid-thirties, the young­
est person ever to hold the position of Blackstaff. As the 
High Wizard of Waterdeep , she is charged with using all 
the magic and resources at her disposal to defend the 
city against threats . She was handpicked for the job by 
Khelben Arunsun , and wields the Blackstafffrom which 