220 
XANATHAR ---
Xana1har is the name given to the beholder crime lord 
that lives in the dungeons under Waterdeep. It isn't the 
first beholder to claim this mantle, nor will it be the last. 
Like all beholders, Xanathar is a paranoid tyrant 
that cha rms and bullies its minions into servitude. The 
Xanathar Guild is made up of some of Waterdeep's 
most disreputab le folk, as well as monsters forced into 
subserv ience or drawn to the beholder by the promise 
of treasure, food, or power. Treachery within the ranks 
of the guild is common as servants vie for the beholder·s 
favor and affection. Such boons are fleeting, though, as 
the beholder is quick to distrust those who finagle their 
way into its good graces. 
Xanathar lives in a dungeon under Skullport. a subter­
ranean settlement connected to Undermountain's third 
level. The place resembl es a ramshackle town, built 
inside a giant cavern connected to an underground river. 
Members of the Xanathar Guild haunt Skullport's dilapi­
dated buildings, and flameskulls patrol its streets. 
The only creature Xanathar truly cares about aside 
from itself is a fish, named Sylgar. that it keeps in a large 
glass tank. Xanathar has minions that look after the fish 
constantly, but even their ministracions can't keep such 
a creature alive forever. Whenever the fish dies, pani c 
spreads through the occupants of the lair as minions try 
to replace the fish before Xanathar realizes what has 
happened. Luckily for them, the beholder can't tell one 
fish from another. 
Xanathar is extremely fond of gold. A few years ago, 
its spies stole the Stone ofGolorr, which contained in­
formation that led to the discovery of a dwarven vault 
under Waterdeep. Xanathar was able to open the vault, 
but was forced out by the dragon inside the place. Re­
cently. someone stole the Stone ofGolorr from where it 
was hidden inside its lair, and the beholder is convinced 
that the Black Network is behind the theft. 
The beholder is caught up in the unbreakable grip 
of its own paranoia. It sees enemies everywhere. and 
lashe s out at anyone it suspects of being a Zhentarim 
spy or assassin. Adventurers who attract its attention 
by dealing with known or suspected Black Network 
operatives are quickly branded as enem ies that must be 
destroyed. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Xanathar is a behold er that wears magic rings on three 
of its eyestalks. It is attuned to all three rings, which 
don't alter the beholder's challenge rating. It wears a 
ring of invisibility on its fear ray eycsta lk, a ring of mind 
shielding on its sleep ray eyesta lk, and a ring of resis­
tance (force) on its slowing ray eycstalk. 
Xanathar's beloved fish, Sylgar, has the sta tistics of a 
quipper, except that it lacks the Blood Frenzy trait. 
YALAH GRALHUND 
The lady of House Gralhund is no fool. She has a keen 
mind and the wisdom to discern friend from foe. She 
also has a husband who worships her (see .. Orond Gral­
hund." page 213) and a house that has the resources of 
the Black Network at its disposal. 
~Pl't"NDIX 8 J MONSTERS .-\CllD NPCS 
Yalah stays abreast of events in the city, keeps a tight 
rein on her children, and uses her station and her fam­
ily's wealth to pry secrets from the lips of nobles, guild­
masters, and commoners alike. Though her previous 
attempts to become a Masked Lord have been thwarted, 
she believes it's only a matter of time until that honor 
is bestowed on her. Once she knows the identities and 
secrets of enough Masked Lords, Yalah is confident that 
she ca n bribe, blackmail, or exto rt her way into their 
rank s. From there, she plan s to effect changes in the 
government that will ensure I louse Gralhund's prosper­
ity for generations to come. 
Yalah shares the services of a half-ore bodyguard with 
her husband, although Hrabba z (see ''ffrabbaz," page 
205) is more loyal to her than to him. She aJso uses 
the Zhentarim who are based in House Gralhund as 
her personal spy networ k, not realizing that the Zhents' 
true master is Manshoon. Most of her dealings are with 
the Zhcnt master assassin Urstul Floxin (see "Urstul 
Floxin," page 216), whom she treats as an underling. 
CAME STATISTICS 
Yalah Gralhund is a Tethyrian human noble, with 
these cha nges: 
• Yalah is neutral evil. 
• She has an InteJligence of 16 (+3). 
• She speaks Common and Infernal. 
'r'ALAM ANO ORONO 
GRA MUNO 