GETTING INVOLVED 
If the characters choos e to join the fray, have everyone 
roll initiative. But the fight is almost over by the time 
they push through the rowdy spectators. Krentz has 
only 3 hit points remaining and is trying to escape from 
underneath Yagra, but the four other Xanathar Guild 
members are poised to tackle her. 
Pu !ling Yagra away from Krentz requires a successful 
Strength check contested by Yagra's Strength check . 
Yagra thanks the characters if they help her, but is disap ­
pointed that they interfered in the fight. 
Remember how the characters deal with Krentz in 
this scene. Ifhe survives, the cha racters might meet him 
again in one of the Xanathar Guild's sewer hideouts (see 
area QS, page 28). 
HANGING BACK 
1f the characters don't interfere in the brawl, Yagra 
knocks Krentz out cold but is then beaten unconscious 
by his companions. Durnan, the proprietor of the Yawn­
ing Portal, points toward the door. "Out!" he snar ls, and 
the Xanathar Guild members flee carrying Krentz's un­
conscious form. 
TROLL AND FRIENDS 
In the third round of the brawl, trouble arises from out 
of the gaping well in the middle of the Yawning Por­
tal's taproom: 
Shouts of alarm suddenly ring out as a hulking creature 
climbs up out of the shaft in the middle of the tap· 
room-a monster with warty green skin, a tangled nest 
of wiry black hair, a long, carrot-shaped nose, and blood· 
shot eyes. As it bares its yellow teeth and howls, you can 
see that a half-dozen bat-like creatures are attached to its 
body, with three more circling above it like flies. Everyone 
in the tavern reacts in fear except for the barkeep, 
Durnan, who shouts, "Troll!" 
The tro ll, which currently has 44 hit points , has craw led 
up from the first level of Undermo untain to feed on tasty 
humanoid flesh, bringing nine stirges with it. Once in 
the taproom, the troll rises to its full height of 9 feet 
and rolls initiative. The stirges also roll initiative, but 
only the three flying above the troll pose a threat. The 
remaining stirges are bloated, having drained copious 
amounts of the troll's blood, and fly back down the shaft 
to digest their meal. As the troll regenerates, the effects 
of its blood loss become less apparent. 
Most tavern patrons and staffe rs flee or take cover 
at the sight of the troll. The sti rges attack the nearest 
characters as Durnan (see appendix B) draws his great­
sword, springs over the bar, and confronts the monster 
himself. As he attacks, he calls on the characters to 
focus on s laying the stirges and then douse the troll 
with lamp oil and set it on fire when it falls. Yagra joins 
the fight if she's conscious. To any characters who help 
defeat the troll, Durnan says matter -of-factly, "You 
fought well." 
O FIAPTl!R 1 I A F.RIEND IN NEED 
If any of the characters are reduced to 0 hit points 
during the fight, employees of the Yawning Portal step 
forward to stabilize them. 
MEET ING VOLO 
Once the troll and the stirges are dealt with, Volo 
pushes against the tide of patrons staying clear of th~ 
monster to greet the characters, lavishing praise on 
them for their bravery (whether justified or not): "You be 
adventurers, am I right? I could use your help. Let's find 
a table to talk , shall we?" 
Volothamp Geddarm is known to most Waterdavians 
as a braggart and a notorious embellisher of facts. For 
all his faults, though, Volo is a soft-hearted sort who 
cares for nothing as much as his friends. At present, 
he is grievously concerned for the well-being of one of 
them. He begins his request with an air of charm and 
mystery, but it quickly devolves into tearful since rity. 
The figure who approached you strokes his mustache, 
adjusts his floppy hat, and tightens his scarf. "Volothamp 
Geddarm, chronicler, wizard, and celebrity, at your 
service. I trust you've noted the violence in our fair city 
these past tendays. I haven't seen so much blood since 
my last visit to Baldur's Gate! But now I fear I have mis­
placed a friend amid this odious malevolence. 
"My friend's name is Floon Blagmaar. He's got more 
beauty than brains, and I worry he took a bad way home 
a couple nights ago and was kidnapped-or worse. If you 
agree to track him down with all due haste, I can offer 
you ten dragons apiece now, and I can give you each ten 
times that when you find Floon. May I prevail upon you in 
my hour of need?" 
Volo gives each character a small pouch containing 10 
gp simply for accepting his quest. Characters who want 
to discover his intentions must make a DC 10 Wisdom 
(Insight) check. On a success, a character discerns that 
Volo is honest but might be stretching the truth about 
how much he can pay. (Currently low on cash, Volo is 
awaiting royalty payments from Volo's Guide to Mon­
sters. To make more coin. he began work on a new book , 
Vo/o's Guide to Spirits and Specters. As it happens, his 
knowledge of spirits mostly concerns the alcoholic vari­
ety, and the writing has not been going well.) If pressed, 
Volo urges the characters to trust him, and promises 
he'll have the rest of the reward, 100 gp per character, 
ready to deliver once Floon is return ed to him alive. 
Volo descr ibes Floon as a hand some human mal e 
in his early thirties with wavy red-blond hair. He was 
dressed in princely garb when Volo last saw him. Two 
nights ago, before Floon disappear ed, he and Volo were 
drinking and merrymaking at the Skewered Dragon, a 
dark, bawdy tavern in the Dock Ward. Volo recommends 
that the characters start their search there. 