A character with thieves' tools can pick the lock on a 
door or the window with a successful DC 10 Dexterity 
chec k. Cha racters who ente r quietly can try to catch the 
kenku by surprise. If the characters knock before en­
tering or announce their arrival in some other way, the 
kenku hide as described above. 
Tables and chairs have been carelessly tossed across the 
floor. The corpses of a dozen men lie along the walls, 
their rapiers and daggers lying nearby. On the north side 
of the area, stairs rise to an open level above. 
If the kenku aren't hidden, add: 
Four short, avian creatures with long beaks and black 
feathers look over in surprise from where they stan d in 
the middle of the warehouse. Each wears a hooded cloak 
and wields a shortsword. 
The corpses belong to five human Zhentarim sellswords 
(the same ones who kidnapped Floon and Renaer) and 
seve n human Xanathar Guild thugs, all of them clad in 
leathe r armor. Each Zhent has a black tattoo of a winged 
snake on his neck or forearm, and one of the Xanathar 
Guild members has a black tattoo on the palm of his 
right hand that looks like a circle with ten spokes radiat­
ing out from its circumference (the symbol of Xanathar). 
The kenku fight until two of them are incapacitated or 
killed, whereupon the survivors try to nee. A successful 
DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) check forces captured 
kenku to divulge what they know. 
WHAT THE KEN KU KNOW 
When kenku speak, they mimic sounds and voices they 
have heard before. Under interrogation, they repeat the 
following phrases: 
In a deep voice with an orcish accent: "Xanathar 
sends its regards.,. 
• In a thin, nasally voice: "Tie up the pretty boy in the 
back room!" and "Follow the yellow signs in the sew­
ers." (This remark refers to tunnels in the sewers that 
are marked with Xanathar's symbol where they lead 
to the Xanathar Guild hideout.) 
• In a scratchy voice: "No time to loot the place.just get 
him to the boss." 
Z2 . STORAGE CLOSET 
The door to this back room hangs loosely on broken 
hinges. The cramped chamber beyond smells strongly 
of sour fish and vinegar. It is filled with discarded ropes. 
canvas tarpaulins, and splintered wood from smashed 
barrels. Renaer Neverember (see appendix B) is hjding 
here, having slipped free of his rope bonds. The charac­
ters can hear his ragged breathing coming from unde r a 
tarpaulin at the north end of the room. 
ROLEPLAYING RENAER 
Renaer is unarmed. Marred by grime and the lingering 
stench of rancid pickled herring, he speaks with grace 
and articulation, as befits his noble upbringing. His trust 
is easily gained but impossible to restore once broken. 
CHAPTER I I A FRIEND IN NEED 