I 
l\1 0 
I 
6l 
~ ~C]~=4SS~~~~9 
Do 
Yard Z1 
MAP 1.1: ZHENT11R1M H 1oe-ouT (Ooc1< W11RO) 
On the night of the abduction, Renaer was concerned 
that Floon was too intoxicated to find his way home by 
himself and offered to escort him. The two were jumped 
by five thugs as they left Fillet Lane and headed north on 
Zastrow Street. 
Renaer feels guilty that Floon was taken, since he be­
lieves (correctly) that they mistook Floon for him. If the 
characters ask Renaer to join their search for Floon, he 
agrees to do so, arming himself with a dagger and a ra­
pier scavenged from the dead Zhents in the warehouse. 
If a character asks Renaer why the Zhents kidnapped 
him, he gives the following truthful reply: 
"The Zhentarim thinks that my father embezzled a large 
amount of gold while he was Open Lord, and that he 
hid the dragons somewhere in the city. They think they 
can find it by using an artifact called the Stone of Colorr, 
which was in the hands of the Xanathar Guild until re· 
cently. Apparently, someone stole it. The Zhents thought 
I knew someth ing about all of this, but I don't. My father 
and I haven't spoken in years." 
Z3. SEC RET ROOM 
This room is hidden behind a secret door that can be 
found with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. When the secret door is opened, the characters 
can hear the faint sound of a bell ringi ng in the offices 
above them (area ZS). 
CHAPTER I I A FR1£ND fN NEED 
ZS 
Upper Level 
(Street Level) ZS 
1 square = S feet 
TREASURE 
Street 
ZS ZS 
0 
0 
0 
cO 
The Zhents have stashed two wooden crates here . The 
first, stolen from the docks, contains four wood-framed 
paintings wrapped in leather. The paintings depict 
the cities of Luskan , Neverwinter, Silverymoon , and 
Baldur's Gate and are worth 75 gp each. 
The second crate , stolen from a caravan on the High 
Road, contains fifteen 10-pound silver trade bars, all 
black from corrosion but still worth 50 gp each. 
Z4 . BALCONY 
The open second level is stacked with crates where it 
overlooks the main warehouse . Characters who search 
through the crates find all sorts of junk , including moth­
eaten bolts of cloth, bottles of spoiled olive oil, and hun­
dreds of pairs of wooden-soled sandals that were all the 
rage last summer but are now out of fashion. None of 
this junk is valuable. 
Z5. O FFICES 
The upper floor contains a suite of offices that get little 
use by the Zhents. The rooms have desks , chairs, and 
bare shelves covered with dust and drap ed in cobwebs. 
Harmless rats skitter about. 
Mounted above each office door is a steel alarm bell. 
The bells are connected by wires to the secret door in 
area 23, and they ring loudly when that door is opened. 
TREASURE 
A character who searches the offices finds an unused 
paper bird (see appendix A). 