XANATHAR G UILD HIDEOUT 
The Xanathar Guild has hideouts throughout Water­
deep's sewers. The floor plan of this locale (see map 1.2) 
can be reused for other hideouts. 
The boss of this hideout is a half-ore named 
Grum 'sbar. When the characters arrive, Grum'shar is 
interrogating Floon Blagmaar in area Q7. His display of 
torture techniques is a ploy to impress his other guest: a 
mind flayer named Nihiloor (see appendix B). 
All the doors in the hideout are unlocked. Grum'shar 
assumes that only those who have guild business will be 
able to find their way here. 
Ql. CENTRAL HUB 
The characters approach this area from the east. slog­
ging through 1-foot-deep water and sewage. 
The main sewer tunnel expands into a circular hub with 
a pair of arrow slits carved into its outer walls, directly 
across from each other. Two passages continue on to the 
north and south. A stone door is set into the back wall of 
a stone ledge to the west. 
If the characters talk loudly or otherwise make a lot of 
noise here, the goblin sentries in areas Q2a and Q2b 
awaken and shoot arrows at them through the arrow 
slits. The slits provide the goblins with three-quar­
ters cover. 
SECRET DOOR 
A secret door in the wall of the tunnel that leads south 
can be found with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check. 
Q2. WATCH P OSTS 
Two goblin s are stationed here, one in area Q2a and 
one io Q2b. Allies of the Xanathar Guild, they came here 
from Undermountain. The goblins rely on dark vision 
to see and are supposed to be watching area QL but 
both have dozed off. Characters who succeed on a DC 
9 Dexterity (Stealth) check can sneak past the sleeping 
goblins without waking them. 
TREASURE 
Each goblin carries ld6 cp in a small pouch. 
Q3. MESSY ROOM 
~~~~~~~~-
Rusty weapons and threadbare clothing Utter the floor 
of th is area, which serves as a coat room and armo ry. It 
contains nothing of value. 
_Q,4. EMPTY SLEEPING AREA 
~~~~~~~~ 
This room contains six tattered, straw-stuffed mat­
tresses and nothing of value. If the occupant or occu­
pants of area Q5 have not been dealt with already, the 
characters hear the sounds of activity in that room 
through the thin wooden door that separates these 
two chambers. 
CHAPTER l I A FRIEND IN t{EED 
Q5. S LE EPINGAR_ E_A ___ _ 
This room contains six tattered , straw-stuffed mat­
tresses and a hostile member of the Xanathar Guild, 
a due rga r named Zemk. If Krentz (CE human bandit) 
escaped from the Yawning Portal after the tavern brawl 
that kicked off the adventure, he's here as well. 
When the characters arrive, Zemk is using pieces of 
furniture to barricade the door to area Q6. If Krentz is 
here , he's trying to explain that Zemk 's approach won't 
work, and is telling him to plug the gap at the bottom of 
the door with blankets . Neither of them notices intrud­
ers right away unless the interlopers make a lot of noise. 
Once combat starts, Zemk fights to the death. How 
Krentz reacts to the adventurers depends on how they 
treated him earlier. If they helped him, he gives them a 
chance to leave in peace, but he fights alongside Zemk if 
they refuse to withdraw. If the duergar is killed, Krentz 
flees if he can or surrenders if he must. 
Neither Zemk nor Krentz carries any treasure. Both 
report to Grum'shar (see area Q7). 
Q,6. LAVATO RY 
This room has a hole in the floor that opens into a cess­
pit. A gr ay ooze has emerged from the pit and killed 
two goblins that were sent into the room to dispose of it. 
The goblins' bones float amid the ooze's gooey form, and 
their pitted weapons lie on the floor nearby. None of the 
gear is salvageable. 
Q7. Boss FIGHT 
Threadbare curtains hang on the east wall of a long 
hall, in the middle of which a muscular half-ore in dingy 
robes stands with his foot on the chest of a male human 
with wavy red-blond hair. Fire burns around the ore's 
clenched fist, and his victim cries and squirms helplessly 
beneath him. 
Seated on a raised platform to the south is a nightmar­
ish figure wearing black robes. It has large white eyes and 
rubbery purple skin, with four tentacles encircling its in­
human mouth. It cradles and gently caresses what looks 
like a disembodied brain with feet. 
The tentacled creature is Nihiloor (see appendix B), a 
mind ft.ayer that is caressing an intellec t devou rer. 
Upon seeing the adventurers, Nihiloor rises from the 
stone chair, sets .its pet down, and glides across the 
room , intending to leave through the double door in the 
west wall. The mind fl.ayer expects Grum'shar and the 
intellect devourer to cover its escape. 
Nihiloor carries a 3-incb-diameter stone orb carved 
to resemble an eyeball, similar to what one might see 
al the end of a beholder's eyesta lk. This stone eye is the 
key to activating the magic portal in area Ql 1. The mind 
flayer uses it to return to Xanathar 's lair (described in 
chapter 5). It uses dominate monster to control some­
one who gets in its way and turns any such individuals 
against their allies. 