In the middle of th is otherwise empty room is a stone 
pillar carved with a small symbol: a perfect circle with 
ten equidistant spokes radiating outward from its cir­
cumference. In the middle of this circle is a smaller cir­
cular indentation that bears a pass ing resemblance to a 
lidless eye. 
If the stone eye in Nibiloor's possess ion is pressed into 
the circular indentation , an opaque black doorway mag­
ically opens in the south wall. The opening is 8 feet tall 
and 4 feet wide. Any creature that passes through it ap­
pears in area X22 of Xanathar's lair (see chapte r 5). The 
door is a one-way portal , and it closes again 1 minute 
after the sto ne eye is removed from the pillar. 
NOT -SO-SECRET DOOR 
The sec ret door is plainly visible to anyone who ap­
proaches it from the east. 
Ql2. HOSTEL CELLAR 
A narrow passage leads to the cellar of a halfling-owned 
hostel on Spices Street in the Dock Ward. Medium char ­
acters must squeeze co reach this area from the tunnel. 
The hostel is used as a base by the Shard Shunners. a 
gang of ha I fling wererats. They are aware of the Xana­
thar Guild hideout, and the two gangs are tenuous allies. 
Roscoe Underbough, a Shard Shunn er in hybrid form, 
guards the cella r. He hides in the northwest storeroom, 
ready to jump out and scare away anyone who heads for 
the sta irs. Not eager to comm it murder, Roscoe allows 
retreating chara cters to Ree back to the sewers. He is a 
wererat. with these changes: 
Roscoe is Small and has 27 (6d6 + 6) hit points. 
He has these racial traits: He can move through the 
space of a Medium or larger creature. He has ad­
vantage on saving throws aga inst being frightened. 
He spea ks Common and Halfling, and he knows 
thieves' ca nt. 
DE VELOP ME NT 
If the char acte rs defeat Roscoe or s lip past him, they 
can make their way up into the hostel, which cater s to a 
mostly halfling clientele. With none of the othe r Shard 
S hunn ers currently present. the characte rs are greeted 
warmly by staff a nd patrons, who point them in the di­
rection of the nearest bathhouse. 
COMPLETI NG VoL o 's Q UEST 
Returning to the Yawning Porta l with Floon Blagmaar 
in tow marks the end of this introductory quest. All that 
remains is for the characters to collect their rewa rd. 
REWARDS 
Volo is drinking alone in the Yawning Portal while anx­
iously awaiting news of Floon's fate. He springs up and 
run s to embrace the characters and his friend as soon 
as he sees them. 
CHAPTER I I A l'llIENO IN NEED 
A GOOD DEED 
If the characte rs reunite Volo with Floon. Volo gives 
them a rather sheepish look as he expla ins their reward: 
"I confess that I have but few coins to spare. But never 
let it be said that Volo reneges on a promise . Allow me to 
present something much more valuable ." He holds out 
a scroll tube. ''The deed to a remarkab le property here in 
Waterdeep! We'll need a magistrate to witness the trans­
fer of ownership. I'll arrange a meeting with one after 
you've inspect ed the estate and deemed it satisfactory." 
The tube contains a deed to Trollskull Manor, a historic 
building in the North Ward that the characte rs can 
claim as a home bas e. The deed has been notarized and 
appea rs legitimate (because it is). Volo recently bought 
the property because it is rum ored to be haunted , and he 
was hoping that investi gating it might yield a chapt er for 
his next book. Volos Guide to Spirits and Specters. 
lf the characters accept their reward, Volo sets up a 
meeting with a tiefting magistrate named Kylynne Sil­
merhe lve. The brief session takes place at a courthouse 
in the Castle Ward at highsun. Magistrate Silmerhelve 
witnesses the transfer of the deed, rendering the new 
ownership official, with the impatience of one who has 
more important matters to attend to. She also collects 
an esta te transfer tax of 25 gp, which is normally paid 
by the new owners. If the chara cters ca n't afford this fee 
or don't want to pay it and they have befriended Renaer 
Neverember, be makes s ure that Volo has a pouch of 
coins to cover the expense. 
FINE FRIENDS 
Volo, Floon. and Renaer all express their gratitude 
through camarade rie. If the characte rs need to call upon 
their new friends for an occas ional favor, a ny of them 
are happy to oblige. Floon has little to offer the cha rac­
ters, but friendship with Volo and Renaer has its perks. 
Volo knows the best places to ea r and find merrim ent. 
He ca n also give characters a tour ofWaterdeep. lf 
the cha racters accept his offer, share the informati on 
in chapter 9, "Volo's Waterdeep Enchiridion," with 
the players. 
Although Renaer is estranged from his rich and pow­
erful father, he still has friends in high places. including 
Harpers who can come to the characters' rescue if they 
need it. If the characters are looking for an audience 
with influential persons in Waterdeep, Renaer can set 
up meetings with Mirt, Rema Ilia Haventree (see ap­
pendix B for both), or just about any other Waterdavian 
noble, if he thinks the chara cters will comport them­
selves well. 
LEVE L ADVANCEMENT 
If you're using milestone level advancement instead of 
tracking expe rience points, the characters advance from 
1st to 2nd level when they return to Volo after having 
explored the Xanathar Guild hideout. 