T2. THE B ENT NAIL 
A small wooden sign above this shop's main door is bare 
except for a large, bent nail sticking out of it. The front 
room contains displays of ornate wooden furn iture, as 
well as a selection of bows and crossbows . The wall 
behind the counte r is lined with rows of finely carved 
wooden canes, quarterstaffs, and shields. 
Talisolvanar "Tally" Fellbranch, the owner and chie f 
artisan of the Bent Nail, is a male half-elf carpenter and 
woodcarver. He is a commone r, with these changes: 
• Tally is chaotic good. 
• He has these racial traits: He has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can't put 
him to sleep. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 
feet. He speaks Common and Elvish . 
SERVICES 
Tally sells wooden weapons and sh ields at norma l cost. 
He also crafts and sells furniture and wood sculptures. 
T 3. STEAM AND STEEL 
During daylight hours, smoke and steam billow from 
the many windows around this indoor forge where 
metal weapons, armor , and tools are made . The forge is 
owned and operated by a married couple: a fire genas i 
named Embric and a water genasi named Avi. Both are 
members of the Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths 
and Metalfo rgers. As an armorer, Avi also belongs 
to the Splendid Order of Armorers, Locksmiths, and 
Finesmiths. 
Embric tends the forge and is an expert weaponsm ith. 
He claims descent from the efreet of Calimshan and is 
prone to extreme mood swings. He has the stat istics of a 
bandit captain , with these changes: 
Embric is neutral good. 
He has these racial traits: He can cast produce flame 
at will. (Constitution is his spellcasting ability, and 
he has a +4 bonus to hit with spell attacks .) He has 
darkvision out to a range of 60 feet and resistance to 
fire damage. He speaks Common and Primordial. 
Avi worships Eldath, god of peace, and uses his magic 
to quench hot steel. He is an expert armo rsmith. Avi is 
laid back and speaks plainly. He has the stat istics of a 
pries t, with these changes: 
Avi is neutral good . 
• He has these racia l traits: At will, he can control the 
flow and shape of water in a 5-foot cube, or cause the 
water to freeze for up to 1 hour. He has a swimming 
speed of 30 feet, and he can breathe air and water. He 
has resistance to acid damage . He speaks Common 
and Primo rdial. 
SERVICES 
The genasi coup le sells all metal weapons, armor, and 
shields listed in chapter 5 of the Player's Handbook at 
normal cost. 
CHAPTER 2 I T.ROI:.LSKULL AUEY 
T4. CoRELLoN's CROWN 
Fala Lefa liir, an herbalist and a member of the Guild 
of Apothecaries and Physicians, operates out of this 
stately, three-story town house, the third floor of which 
has been converted into a greenhouse. Its translucent 
glass walls allow anyone on the street to see the rain­
bow of flowers blossom ing within. 
Fala Lefaliir is an outgoing wood elf with long, 
braided hair. Like the elven god Corellon Larethian, 
Fala is neither male nor female . If referred to as "he" 
or "she," Fala gently requests to be addressed by name 
or as "they." Fala is friends with a member of the Zhen­
tarim named Ziraj, who saved Fala's life. He visits Fala 
from time to time, and Fala has set aside a room for him 
on the second floor. 
Fala is a druid , with these changes: 
• Fala is chaotic good. 
• Fala bas these racial traits: Fala has advantage on 
saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't 
put Fala to sleep. Fala has a walking speed of 35 feet 
and darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Fala speaks 
Common, Druidic, and Elvish. 
SERVICES 
In addition to nonmagical herbal remedies, Fala sells 
potions of the types listed in the Fa la's Potions table. 
Fala keeps ld6 vials of each potion in locked cabinets 
behind the shop counter. 
fALA ' S POTIONS 
Pot ion 
Potion of animal friendship 
Potion of climbing 
Potion of greater healing 
Potion of healing 
Potion of water breathing 
T5 . TIGER'S EYE 
Cost 
l2S gp 
so gp 
2SO gp 
so gp 
2SO gp 
This private detective's business is w1remarkable on 
the outside, its only distinguishing mark an orange­
and-black sign featuring a cat's eyes. Inside is a regal 
apartment dimly lit by flickering oil lamps. The door is 
locked, and visitors must knock or ring the bell before 
being let in. 
They are met by Vincent Trench, a human detective 
and the owner of the Tiger's Eye. He speaks concisely, 
dresses in a sharp suit, and smokes a slim pipe. Vincent 
is in fact a raksba s a named Valantajar that always casts 
disguise self on itself before seeing visitors. The rak­
shasa has lived in Waterdeep for years. switching iden­
tities as often as needed to keep its true nature hiden. 
It has grown accustomed to living among mortals and, 
much to its own astonishment, is rather fond ofWater­
deep and its citizens. 
SERVICES 
Trench can discover any secret in Waterdeep, for a fee. 
Use your judgment when pricing its services; 50 gp is 
sufficient for most investigations , but if the characters 
want to learn secrets relating to the major antagonists 