JOININ G FACT IONS 
Word begins to spread througho ut Waterdeep that a 
group of advent urers helped Volothamp Geddarm and 
resc ued Renaer Neverember. Within days, faction rep­
resentat ives begin to approach the cha racters and try 
to recruit them . This book's introduction describes the 
various factions and what they look for in recru its. The 
characters need not all join the sa me faction, and some 
might not want to join a faction at all. 
A character who belongs to a faction is given a mission 
upon gainin g a level, from 2nd through 5th level. Com­
pleting the mission increases that member's renown in 
the faction. Other characters who aren't faction mem­
bers can assist in the mission's completion. A character 
who belongs to a faction other than the Lords' Alliance 
can turn down a mission without consequence. 
Each faction has a representative who serves as its 
primary contact. This NPC delivers mission briefings 
and dispenses the tangible rewards for completing a 
BR EGA N D'AER T HE MISSI O NS 
Party Level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"I'd like you to steal a silk handkerchief from a 
Waterdavian noble and give it to a tiefling girl 
who lives in a crate at the corner of Net Street 
and Dock Street, by the wharf." 
"This mission is so easy, a gang of street ur­
chins could pull it off. I want you to deliver an 
expose to Gaxly Rudderbust, the publisher of a 
local broadsheet called The Waterdeep Wazoo, 
without his knowing who wrote it or where it 
came from. You'll find his office at the corner 
of Im mar Street and Stallion Street, in the 
North Ward. Leave the story on his desk." 
"We've captured a member of the Xanathar 
Guild, and I'd like you to guard him for three 
nights until I or another member of Bregan 
D'aerthe reclaims him. You'll find him trapped 
in your basement." 
"We have a spy deep within Xanathar's orga­
nization, but I fear he has been compromised. 
It breaks my heart to do this, but I'm sending 
you to eliminate him. Make it quick and pain· 
less, and for Lolth's sake, be discreet." 
OH APTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLEY 
mission. An increase in renown quickly follows. The 
missions and the manner in which they ca n be com­
pleted are described in the tables throughout this sec­
tion. You can use missions from these tables or replace 
any of them with ones of your own creation. 
If a mission ends in failure, the characters can try 
again after 24 hours, unless the failure has created cir­
cumstances where doing so is impo ssib le. 
BREGAN D 'AE RTHE 
If one or more cha ract ers are drow,Jarlaxle Baenre has 
his lieutenants, three drow gunslingers , shadow these 
potential new recruits while keeping a safe distance. 
Fel'rekt Lafeen and Krebbyg Masq'il'yr watch the char­
acters at night, and Soluun Xibrindas watches them 
during the day (doing his best to stay out of the sunlight). 
See appendix B for details on these lieutenants. 
Cha racters who have a passive Wisdom (Perception) 
score of 18 or higher see fleeting glimpses of the drow 
spies over a period of several days and can, with a sue-
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Finding a noble isn't hard, but snatching one's handkerchief without 
being detected requires a successful DC 12 Dexterity (Sleight of 
Hand) check. One can also convince a noble to surrender it with 
a successful DC 12 Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, or Persua­
sion) check. The tiefling girl in the crate thanks the characters for 
the hanky. Reward: Each Bregan D'aerthe character gains l renown. 
)arlaxle has written an expose on devil worship among unnamed 
Waterdavian noble families. The story mentions orgies and secret 
deals happening behind closed doors. ()arlaxle never passes up a 
chance to rattle the nobility and sow political unrest.) A character 
can break into Gaxly's office while it's closed, either during lunch 
hour or after hours. Getting in and out without being seen requires 
two successful DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and getting past 
a locked door requires a successful DC 10 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools (or a knock spell or similar magic). Reward: Each Bre· 
gan D'aerthe character gains l renown. 
Characters who search the basement of their Trollskull Alley tavern 
find Ott Steeltoes (see appendix B) bound by iron bands of Bilarro. 
How he got there is anyone's guess; even he doesn't know. On the 
first night, Xanathar sends a gang of six bugbears to attack the tav­
ern and rescue Ott. If the characters have moved Ott elsewhere, the 
bugbears attack the tavern anyway. On the second night, four mem­
bers of the Dungsweepers' Guild (commoners) with intellect de­
vourers in their skulls visit the tavern. They order drinks and scope 
out the tavern, attacking if they find Ott or leaving if they don't. On 
the third night, a beholder zombie attacks. After the third attack, Ott 
disappears as mysteriously as he arrived, along with the iron bands 
of Bi/arro. Reward: Each Bregan D'aerthe character gains 2 renown. 
)arlaxle identifies the traitor as a drow mage named Nar'I Xibrindas 
(see appendix B) and furnishes the characters with a route to Xana­
thar's lair through underground passageways. (Xanathar's lair is de­
scribed in chapter 5. Characters who follow )arlaxle's route arrive at 
area Xl .) Reward: Each Bregan D'aerthe character gains 2 renown. 
Each party member who contributes to the mission receives a tro­
phy bearing a gold statuette of )arlaxle (worth 250 gp). 