VAJR A SAFA HR 
BlackstaffTowe r is a fortress and a wizard training 
acade my aJI in one. From here , Vajra Safah r watches 
over the city and asserts herse lf as Blacksta ff. S ending 
spells a re her preferred way of com municating with her 
operatives. 
Vajra offers the charac ters membership in the Gray 
Hands, a private secur ily force under her command . She 
doles out missions designed lo lax lhe characters' re­
sou rces and tesl their loyally lo Waterdeep. Characters 
who complete these missions won't gain enough renown 
to join Force Grey yet, but they will gaio something 
valuable: the Blackstaff's patronage. Vajra continues to 
take an interest in their adventuring careers, helping out 
when she can. 
HARP ER M ISSIONS 
Party Level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"One of the drays working in the city is pulled 
by a talking mare named Maxeene. Locate 
her, find out if she's learned the identity of any 
Zhent operatives, and if so, determine their 
whereabouts ." 
"Uza Solizeph is an old woman who sells 
books out of a narrow three-story building on 
Sorn Street in the Trades Ward. She claims to 
have trapped a monster in her shop and fears 
for the welfare of her books and her cat. The 
City Watch isn't likely to lend a hand, given 
Uza's propensity for tall tales, but the Harp­
ers owe her a favor. You'll find her sob bing at 
Felzoun's Folly, a tavern on the corner of Sorn 
Street and Salabar Street. Make haste!" 
"One of our members, Mattrim Mereg, has 
allied himself with a gang of doppelgangers 
and believes the Harpers should recruit them. 
We need an unbiased opinion. Track down and 
speak with each of the doppelgangers, and 
gauge their trustworthiness ." 
"Lady Remallia Haventree is hosting a party at 
House Ulbrinter, her villa on Delzorin Street, 
located between Vhezoar Street and Brondar's 
Way in the North Ward. We have reason to 
suspect that drow spies have infiltrated the 
guest list. Attend the party and root out the 
disguised drow. Dress sharply." 
H A RPER S 
The Harpers approach good-aligned cha racters who 
show promise as spies. One such character receives 
the following message, written on a pape r bird (see 
appendix A): 
"Renaer tells us you are a good bet. He bought you 
tickets to the opera tonight at the Lightsinger Theater 
in the Sea Ward. If you are interested, meet Mirt at 
intermission. Private Box C. Formal attire is required for 
admittance." 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Characters can find Maxeene, a draft horse with an Intelligence 
score oflO, with a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check. Maxeene speaks Common, and characters must try to con­
vince her that they're Harpers by making a DC 13 Charisma (Persua­
sion) check. If the check succeeds , the horse recalls giving a ride to 
a sun elf and his half-ore bodyguard two days ago; she picked them 
up at an intersection (she doesn 't recall which one) and dropped 
them off at the Yawning Portal. They talked about hiring spies to 
root out Xanathar Guild hideouts in the city. Maxeene's descriptions 
of the passe ngers match the appearances of Davi I Starsong and 
Yagra Stonefist. Reward: Each Harper character gains 1 renown. 
Uza (LG female human Mulan commoner) describes the threat as a 
"monstrous orb of many eyes" that chased her cat, Fillipa, into the 
shop. The monster is, in fact, a gazer (see appendix B). If the char­
acters met a gazer in chapter 1, they know what they're up against. 
Uza lends them the keys to the front and back doors of her shop. 
Characters find the interior in shambles and hear a cat meowing 
on the third Aoor. The sounds are coming from the gazer, which is 
hunting Fillipa. The cat has so far eluded the nasty little predator. 
Reward: Each Harper character gains 1 renown if the gazer is de­
feated. Uza also gives the party a used spell book containing four 
1st-level and three 2nd-level wizard spells. 
The characters must speak with five doppelgangers, starting with 
their leader, "Bonnie," who works at the Yawning Portal. She needs 
a few days to round up the other doppelgangers , who agree to meet 
at the tavern in human guises. Characters must interview each 
doppelganger and succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom (Insight) check to 
ascertain its trustworthiness. Only "Bonnie" is trustworthy. Reward: 
Each Harper character gains 2 renown. Every contributing party 
member receives 50 gp. 
Remallia Haventree (see appendix B) knows of the mission, but it's 
not revealed to the characters that she's a Harper. There's one drow 
spy in attendance: Jarlaxle Baenre (see appendix B). He uses his hat 
of disguise to appear as a young actor from Luskan named Erystian 
Demarne. A successful DC 24 Wisdom (Insight) check is needed 
to out Jarlaxle. Impressed by the perceptive adventurers, he thanks 
Lady Haventree for an entertaining evening and dashes off, but 
not without fi rst tipping his hat to the character or characters who 
exposed him. Reward: Each Harper character gains 2 renown. Every 
party member who atte nded the party receives 200 gp. 
CllAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLE Y 