ULKORIA STONEMARROW 
Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors 
Ulkoria (NG female shield dwarf archmage) has de­
fended Waterdeep with her magic more times than 
she can recall. She's known as ''the Gargoyle" because 
her face is frozen in a scowl that frightens adults and 
children alike. No one knows where she lives. but it's 
believed to be unde rground, poss ibly a cellar or dungeon 
unde r one of the city's oldest estates. She uses teleport 
spells to enter and leave her home. and she's never seen 
without her shield guardi an close by. 
A little known fact is that Ulkoria once owned the 
tavern in Trollskull Alley. She sold it to a family of shield 
dwarves, who fell on hard times and sold it to a woma n 
who made it into an orphanage. "Turned out to be a hag 
who was cooking and eating the children," Ulkoria re­
calls. The estate passed through several more hands in 
the years that followed. Ulkoria hopes the new owners 
make someth ing good of it. 
Anytime she passes through the North Ward, Ulkoria 
stops by the tavern for a drink and to check out the place 
while her shield guardian waits outside. If she doesn't 
like what the characters have done with the establish­
ment, she keeps her criticisms to herself. The characters 
can hire her to cast glyphs of warding on the place, for 
which she cha rges 300 gp apiece. 
B US I NESS RIVAL: EMMEK F REWN 
Emmek Frewn, a saJty northerner (NE male Illuskan 
common er), recent ly tried to buy the tavern in Trollskull 
Alley but was outbid by Volothamp Geddarm. Stung by 
the loss, he bought a smaller, less impressive building 
in the same alley and turned it into a pub, which he calls 
Frewn's Brews. If you decide to introduce Emmek as a 
business rival, choose an unmarked building on map 2.1 
to serve as the pub. 
Emmek's family migrated to Waterdeep after its hold­
ings in Neverwinter were destroyed by the eruption of 
Mount Hotenow in 1451 DR. The family struggled to 
make ends meet by tanning leather in the Trades Ward. 
After Emmek's parents died, his sisters took over the 
bus iness and bought him out. He never liked the work 
anyway, and he particularly hated dealing with the 
League of Skinners and Tanners. 
Emmek is on shaky financial footing because he bas 
sunk most of his wealth into this latest endeavor. He's 
also in troub le with two of the guilds. First, he tried to 
save coin by fixing the roof himself. in defiance of the 
Carpenters', Roofers'. and Plaisterers · Guild. Then he of­
fended a member of the Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild 
by compa ring the dwarf's beard to barnacles on a ship. 
GOALS 
Emmek wants his pub to be the most successful tavern 
in the North Ward, and he wants the characters' busi­
ness to fail spectacularly. 
ASSETS 
Emmek is sti ngy when it comes to certain kinds of ex­
penses and foolish with his coin in other ways. He tends 
to spend a lot on big, showy items and cut corners on the 
little amenities. Because he doesn't have much coin to 
C.. HAPTER ?. 11 RO LLS KU LL ALLEY 
throw around right now, his plan to ruin the characters' 
establishment begins with borrowing some money. 
PLANS 
Emmek secures a 150 gp loan from lstrid Hom (see ap­
pendix B). He spends 50 gp for the services of the Shard 
Shunners, a gang of halfling wererats with which he has 
had nefarious dealings in the past. He pays the halflings 
to hinder the characters' efforts while he works fever­
ishly to manage his own business. 
Four gang members have been assigned to work 
with Emmek: two males named Kelso Fiddlewick and 
Dasher Snobeedle. and two females named Danika Fid­
dlewick (Kelso's younger sister) and Brynn Hilltopple. 
These halnings are wererats, with these changes: 
Each wererat is Small and has 27 (6d6 + 6) hit points. 
• It has these racial traits: It can move through the 
space of a Medium or larger creature. lt has advantage 
on saving throws against being frightened. It speaks 
Common and Halfling, and it knows thieves' cant. 
Emmek's strategy for ruining the compet ition and the 
consequences for putting it into action are summarized 
in the table below. 
EM MEK'S PLANS 
Element 
Event 
Event 
Action 
Event 
Action 
Action 
Description 
The wererats scope out the characters' tavern in 
halfling forms and might try to get jobs there. 
The wererats plant morsels of food inside the 
characters' place and bore tiny holes in the out· 
side walls to attract rats, creating an infestation. 
Emmek spreads rumors that the characters' tav­
ern is rat-infested, which is why he didn't buy it. 
Apply a -10 penalty on the next three rolls char· 
acters make on the Running a Business table 
(see "Tavern Keeping Expenses," page 41). 
The Shard Shunners claim they've done enough 
for their coin and demand more. 
Emmek pays the were rats another SO gp to 
creep around the characters' tavern at night 
in hybrid and rat form, carve rat faces into the 
doors of neighbors, and otherwise draw atten ­
tion to themselves. 
Emmek convinces several local residents to sign 
a letter he has drafted, then dispatches it to the 
City Watch. The letter accuses the characters of 
running a front for a guild of wererat thieves and 
urges the Watch to close their establishment. 
LEVEL A DVANCEMENT 
Jn this section of the adventure, the characters should 
advance to 3rd level by engaging in faction mis-
sions, dealing with Emmek Frewn, or partaking in 
self-directed activities. This period of time represents an 
opportunity for the characte rs to make friends and gain 
a reputation (for good or ill) in Trollskull Alley-and in 
Waterdeep itself-before the events of chapter 3 embroil 
them in a greater plot. 