having never met Dalakhar, have little information to 
offer unless they decide to lie. 
Neither Barnibus nor Sergeant Cromley is quick to 
jump lo conclusions. They both prefer to have ironclad 
evidence and testimony from reliable witnesses before 
making any arrests. Even though the characters are sus­
pects by virtue of their proximity to the crime scene. it 
hardly seems plausible that they would unleash destruc­
tive magic so close to their place of business in broad 
daylight. Consequently, Barnibus intend s not to take up 
too much of their time. 
Barnibus and Sergeant Cromley refuse requests by 
characters to join the investigation. "That would intro­
duce too many new variab les into an already confound· 
ing equation," replies Barnibus with a frown. "Trust in 
the Watch," Cromley adds dismissively. Characters who 
seem truthful and honest can press Barnibus for furth er 
information by making a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) 
check. On a success, they nudge Barnibu s into revealing 
what he has discovered, as outlined above. 
EYEWITNESSES 
Many other people witnessed the fireball without being 
caught in the blast. Three of them have important infor­
mation to share. Any character who spends at least 1 
minute talking to one of them learns what that person 
saw or heard. (No ability checks are required, since the 
eyewitnesses are eager to talk.) 
FALA LEFALIJR 
Fala, the owner of Corellon's Crown (see chapter 2, area 
T4). relates the following information: 
"I was watering plants in the greenhouse on the second 
floor of my shop when the blast blew out some of the 
windows. Lucky I wasn't injured! Through the smoke, 
I saw a cloaked man take something from the body of 
a dead gnome. then start limping away. He was badly 
burned and casting glances over his shoulder, like he was 
afraid someone might be following him. He was headed 
toward the Bent Nail." 
Pala saw Urstul Floxin fleeing the scene with the Stone 
ofGolorr in his clutches. He circled around the Bent 
Nail (see chapter 2. area T2) on his way out of Troll­
skull Alley. 
jEZRYNNE HORNRAVEN 
A Waterdavian born of wealth and privilege. j ezrynne 
was leaving the Tiger's Eye (see chapter 2, area TS), hav­
ing just hired Vincent Trench to spy on her philandering 
husband, when she witnessed the following: 
"I tell you, it was not a man. More like a puppet shaped 
like a man. A puppet without strings. It was on the 
rooftop. It hurled something into the crowd below that 
caused the explosion. I saw those halflings burned alive! 
I saw them!" 
5A£T>< CROMLEY ANO BARNIBUS BLASTWINO 
Jezrynne doesn't know what the "puppet" hurled to 
cause the fireball. She took her eyes off the thing during 
the chaos and doesn't know where it went. 
MARTEMTREC 
This 12-year-old boy watched as his halning friends per­
ished in the flames. He didn't see much beyond that, but 
he found something important after the blast went off: 
] 
"Right after the explosion, I ducked behind a rain barrel. ] 
Then I heard a 'plop' and found this in the barrel." 
Martem produces a necklace of fireballs with two beads 
remaining and a broken clasp. As it fled across a roof­
top, the nimblewright accidentally yanked on the neck­
lace. which came off, fell to the roof, slid off the edge, 
and plopped into the rain barrel next to Martem. 
He doesn 't know what to make of this object but was 
planning to keep it. A character can snalch it from him 
or convince Martem to relinquish it with a successful 
DC 8 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check. 
Characters who withhold the necklace, and knowl­
edge of it, from the City Watch are guilly of a crime in 
Waterdeep. Hampering justice by concealing evidence 
can result in a fine of up to 200 gp and hard labor for up 
to a tenday. 
C HAPTER 3 I f'IRl:.BALL 