SPEAKING WITH THE VICT I MS 
The dead are taken to a City Watch station in the North 
Ward and kept in a cellar morgue. Clerics from local 
temples are brought in to cast gentle repose spells on 
the corpses, to preserve them while the investigation is 
ongoing. Any character who has a renown of 1 or higher 
in Force Grey (the Gray Hands), the Harpers, the Lords' 
All iance, the Order of the Gauntlet, or the Zhentarim 
can petition their faction representative to hire a cleric 
to cast speak with de;:id on one or more of the fatalities. 
The characters can hire a cleric themselves by making 
a donation of at least 25 gp to the cleric's temple for 
each casting of the spell. They must also provide a list of 
questions they want answered. 
A speak with dead spell can pry some or all of the fol­
lowing information from Dalakhar's corpse if the right 
questions are asked: 
• Dalakhar stole an artifact called the Stone ofGolorr 
from the lair of a beholder known as Xanathar, in a 
dungeon deep below the city. 
Dalakhar worked for the Open Lord of Waterdeep. 
(Here he refers to Lord Dagult Neverember, whom 
he believes is the rightful Open Lord, not Laeral 
Silverhand.) 
The Stone of Golorr is the key to finding a hoard of 
dragons hidden in the city. 
Dalakhar heard about a group of adventurers who 
rescued Lord Neverember's son from the Zhentarim 
and thought the Stone ofGolorrwould be safe in their 
hands for the time being. He was on his way to deliver 
it to them, planning to come back and reclaim it after 
he had eluded his pursuers. Then the fireball went off. 
The following information can be learned by casting 
speak with dead on one or both of the dead Zhentarim 
sellswords: 
Their names were Bashekk Ortallis and Wern 
Malkrave. They worked for Urstul Floxin and resided 
al Gralhund Villa. 
• Their job was to help catch a gnome named Dalakbar. 
• Dalakhar had some kind of artifact in his possession 
which, according to Urstul Floxin, would make them 
as rich as kings. 
N1M 's SECRET 
Characters who questionjezrynne Hornraven (see "'Eye­
witnesses'' above) can get a description of the creature 
that set off the fireball. It bears a striking similarity to 
the automatons that sometimes march in the Day of 
Wonders parade, as anyone who has lived in Waterdeep 
during the fall season knows. Because the Day of Won­
ders parade is sponsored by the loca I temp le of Gond, 
characters might want to visit the temple and investigate 
a possible connection. 
H OUSE OF I NSPIRED HANDS 
The House of Inspired Hands , Waterdeep's temple of 
Gond, sits on the corner of Seawatch Street and Shark 
Street in the Sea Ward. If the characters visit the tem­
ple, they see the following: 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALL 
The House of Inspired Hands looks like a cross be­
tween a temple and a workshop. The symbol of Gond, a 
toothed cog with four spokes, is displayed prominently. 
You see the silhouette of a humanoid shape perching 
on the rooftop. It extends an arm, releasing a tiny metal 
sparrow into the sky. The bird does a few loops in the air, 
then veers right toward you. 
The creature atop the temple is Nim, a oimblewright 
(see appendix B). Nim was given to the temple as a gift 
from a visiting Lantanese wizard and has been creating 
its own inventions on the sly. One of those inventions 
was the nimblewright that detonat ed the fireball in 
Trollskull Alley. Another less -dangerous invention, a 
mechanical sparrow, is on an accidental collision course 
with the party. 
Have the characters roll initiative. Nim's mechanical 
bird acts on initiative count 10, has a flying speed of 60 
feet. and starts 60 feet away from the characters. It has 
AC 15, l hit point, and immunity to poison and psychic 
damage. On its turn, it flies toward one party member 
at random and makes a melee weapon attack (+O to hit) 
against that character. On a hit, the bird deals 2 (ld3) 
piercing damage as it slams into the character with 
surprising force. On a miss, it crashes. Either way, it's 
destroyed on impact. 
After the attack, Nim withdraws into the temple's attic 
through a secret hatch in the roof and lies low, hoping 
the characters don't report the incident to the tem-
ple's acolytes. 
INSIDE THE TEMPLE 
The temple of Gond is open and abuzz with activity 
during daylight hours, then closes from sunset until sun­
rise. At night. acolytes retire to their private quarters co 
work on pet projects. 
HALL OF EXEMPLARY INVENTIONS 
The main hal l of the temp le holds two dozen marble 
pedestals. Each one bears a prize -winning invention or 
a miniature model of some other extraordinary creation. 
Among the displays are several that stand out: 
• A 4-foot-tall working model of a clock tower rings at 
the top of every hour. It is made of wood. iron. bronze, 
and glass, with brass bells and delicate hands formed 
from solid gold. 
• A wooden flying machine has wings that flap when it 
becomes airborne. 
• A miniature model of a mechanical dragon turtle has 
a brass plate affixed to its pedestal that reads, "Big 
Bclchy. Sank in Deepwater Harbor on the Day of 
Wonders in 1363 DR." 
• A functional "waking helmet" equipped with small, 
articulated metal arms and hands that gently slap the 
wearer if he or she falls asleep. 
• A miniature model of a red submarine shaped like a 
manta ray has a brass plate affixed to its pedestal that 
reads, "The Scarlet Marpenoth. Lantanese submers­
ible. Launched in 1489 DR." 