JllRLllKLE 811ENRE 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALL 
Matchless Pipe. A switch made of flint is built into the 
bowl of this fine wooden smoking pipe. With a few flicks 
of the switch, the pipe lights itself. 
FIN DI NG N1M's CREATION 
Equipped with the nimblewright detector, the characters 
can search for Nim's escaped creation. A ward-by-ward 
search is the best approach, but let the players tell you 
how their characters conduct the search. Depending on 
where they go, the search could take days. 
A character mounted on a griffon can complete a 
city-wide search in a couple of hours. To secure the 
use of a griffon, a character must either be a member 
of the Order of the Gauntlet on good terms with Savra 
Belabranta or a member of the Lords' Alliance on good 
terms withjalester Silvermane. As it happens, a young 
griffon named Bonesnapper is being trained to serve 
as a mount in the Griffon Cavalry. If Savra or jalester is 
inclined to help the party, the characters can arrange to 
meet the gr iffon and its trajner outside the R iver Gate 
the following morning shortly after dawn. (The griffon 
and its trainer normally reside in Peaktop Aerie atop 
Mount Waterdeep, but most civilians aren't welcome 
there.) To gain Bonesnapper's trust, a character must 
succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. 
The griffon won't allow any character who fails the 
check to ride it. 
Nim's errant nimblewright is in Gralhund Villa on 
Saerdoun Street, in the North Ward. It isn't, however, 
the only nimblewright to be found outside the House 
of Inspired Hands . If the characters decide to search 
the Dock Ward, the nimblewright detector starts to 
whir when it comes within range of a couple of the 
ships in port. 
DOCK WARD DISTRACTION 
Zardoz Zord, owner of the Sea Maidens Faire, has 
brought his three ships to Waterdeep. Two of these gal­
leons, the Heartbreaker and the Hell raiser, are docked. 
Zord's flagship, the Eyecatcher, is anchored in Deepwa­
ter Harbor . Each of the three ships (described in chapter 
7) has at least one nimblewr ight aboard. 
The docks are bustling and chaotic during the day, 
except in winter. At night, darkness provides sufficient 
cover for characters to approach the docked vessels 
unseen. If one or more characters are caught aboard a 
ship, the crew tries to corner them until the shjp's cap­
tain can have words with them. The nimblewrights, they 
say, are "attractions and nothing more." If the characters 
ask to speak to the owner of the fleet, a sending spell is 
used to contact Zord, who invites the characters to dine 
with him aboard the Eyecatcher. 
Dining with Zardo z Zord. Characters who accept 
Zord's offer are shuttled by dinghy to his flagship, 
welcomed aboard by drow crew members magically 
disguised as attractive humans (see chapter 7 for more 
information). and led to the captain's dining cabin 
(areajlO): 