GRALHUND VILLA 
After fleeing Trollskull Alley with the Stone ofGolorr in 
his clutches, the Zhent assassin Urstul Floxin returned 
to Gralhund Villa to confront Yalah Gralhund about 
sending the oimblewright to meddle in his mission. 
Lady Gralhund decides she no longer likes Urstul and, 
laking advantage of his injuries, wrests the Stone of 
Golorr from him at swordpoint and orders her gua rds to 
lock him up until she decides what to do with him. 
Your choice of main villain determines Lady Gral­
hund's motivation, which is a secret held by her and 
Hrabbaz, her loyal half-ore bodyguard: 
• ff Xanathar is the main villain, Yalah Gralhund has se­
cretly cut a deal with the beholder crime lord, offering 
to return the Stone ofGolorr to it if the beholder helps 
her create a vacancy on the council of Masked Lords. 
• ff the Cassalanters are the main villains, Yalah is a 
fawning member of their Asmodeus-worship ing cult 
and intends to deliver the Stone ofGolorr to them as a 
demonstration of her fealty and friendship. 
ff Jarlaxle is the main villain, he and Yalah are secret 
lovers. He has promised to facilitate her rise in power 
after he uses Lord Neverember's lost hoard to buy 
Luskan's way into the Lords' Alliance. 
• IfManshoon is the main villain, he promised not to 
destroy Yalah's family if she allowed her villa to be 
used as a staging area for his secret plots. Believing 
that Urstul Floxin is after the gold for himself, Yalah 
plans to cut Urstul out of the dea l and deliver the 
Stone ofGolorr to Manshoon herself. 
Having gravely misjudged and underestimated Lady 
Grall1und once, Urstul isn't about to do so again. Ral­
lying despite his injuries, he manages to kill the two 
inattentive Gralhund guards who were watching over 
him and alert the other Zhents on the estate. who begin 
dispatching the other guards and servants. Urstul's goal 
is to capture Lord or Lady Gralhund, force the surren­
der of the Stone ofGolorr, and deliver it to his master 
Manshoon in Kolat Towers (described in chapter 8). 
Urstul's plans - unbeknownst to him- are dashed 
when Lady Gralhund orders her nimblewright to take 
the Stone of Golorr elsewhere. Amid the chaos, the nim­
blewright flees the estate. 
SHOULD TH EY OR SHOULD N'T THEY? 
The characters must proceed carefully, since they have 
no evidence that directly implicates the Gralhunds in 
the attack in Trollskull Alley. Their two basic choices 
arc to share what they know with the City Watch or to 
visit Gralhund Villa themselves. 
LET THE WATCH H ANDLE IT 
The characters can go to any City Watch station in the 
North Ward and report what they have learned to the 
constables there. Shortly thereafter, the characters 
receive a visit from Barnibu s Blastwind and Saeth 
Croml ey (see appendix B), who have no reason to sus­
pect the characters are lying. Their own investigation 
corroborates much of what the characters said. Barni­
bus concludes the meeting by saying, rather brusquely, 
CHAPTrR 3 I FIREBALL 
"Thank you for the information." Cromley adds, "Rest 
assured, we'll have this case resolved in no time." 
A magistrate provides the City Watch with a warrant 
to search Gralhund Villa. Sometime afterward, Cromley 
visits the characters by himself and, as a courtesy, tells 
them what happened: 
• Officers arrived to find Lord Gralhund unconscious, 
Lady Gra lhund in shock, and their half-ore bodyguard 
bloodied but unbowed. 
• Apparently, the Gralhunds had been held hostage for 
more than a tenday by agents of the Black Network. 
Most of the Zhents were killed during a bloody revolt 
led by Lord Gralhund himself. 
The Zhent leader, Urstul Floxin , was among those 
who got away. He·s still at large. The Watch plans to 
step up its search for him. 
Of the nimblewright, there was no sign. According 
to the Gralhunds, the construct was delivered to 
Gralhund Villa weeks earlier. The family took it in, 
not realizing it was a Zhentarim spy. Lady Gralhund 
reported that it stole her necklace of fireballs. 
Cromley's summary of events is based on information 
given to the City Watch by the Gralhunds and is riddled 
with falsehoods. The hostage situation. Lord Gralhund's 
heroism. and the theft of Lady Gralhund's necklace of 
fireballs never happened. The nimblewright's affiliation 
with the Zhentarim is also a lie. The Gralhunds' account 
further doesn't explain why the nimblewright would use 
the necklace of fireballs to inflict harm on the Zhents if 
it was working with them. If characters raise that ques­
tion, Cromley thinks for a moment and then ventures 
the guess that the nimblewright underestimated the 
necklace's explosive power. 
INVESTIGATE THE VILLA 
The characters can insert themselves into Gralhund 
Villa and accost its residents with impunity if they're 
careful to pin the violence on the Zhents or if they're 
able lo enter and leave unseen before the City Watch 
shows up to arrest everyone. 
Sneaking in or out of the villa without being seen or 
heard by neighbors and passersby requires each char­
acter to succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check. 
A character who has proficiency in the Stealth skill can 
take disadvantage on the check to grant advantage on 
another party member's check (essentially compensat­
ing for a less stealthy companion). 
If the characters side with the Gralhunds in the con­
flict, Lady Gralhund is inclined to overlook their tres­
pass. Her demeanor sours, however, if they start asking 
too many questions. She vigorously denies accusations 
that her family is involved with the Black Network and 
claims the Zhe nts were holding her family hostage (a 
false claim also parroted by her husband, her body­
guard, her children, and her staff). If the characters as­
sault any member of the household or brandish weapons 
in an attempt to intimidate, the Gralhunds inform the 
City Watch of the party 's crimes. 
During the characters' invasion of Gralhund ViJla. the 
nimblewright flees the estate with the Stone ofGo/orr 
(see chapter 4 for more information on its destination). If 