the characters are using Nim's nimblewright detector to 
track the nimblewright, the device lets them know that 
the nimblewright has fled the scene, but not the direc­
tion it went. 
O VE RVI EW 
Gralhund Villa sits in the middle of an upper-class resi­
dential neighborhood in the North Ward. Here are some 
general facts to keep in mind: 
• The streets around the villa have pedestrians and 
coaches traveling along them at all hours, though traf­
fic is heavier during the day. 
• The estate is enclosed by 12-foot-high stone walls that 
require a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check 
to negotiate without the aid of climbing gear or magic. 
• Neighbors and bystanders alert the City Watch if they 
hear loud, disturbing noises (such as a thunderwave 
spell) coming from the estate or if they see anything 
suspicious. The Watch sends a mage and six veterans 
(one sergeant and five constables) to investigate, and it 
takes ld6 + 4 minutes for this force to arrive. 
• All ceilings in the mansion are 20 feet high. 
E NC O UNTE RS IN THE V I LLA 
The following encounter locations, keyed to map 3.1, 
describe the Gralhund estate as it stands when the char­
acters fi rst arrive. The Zhents have taken over the down­
stairs level of the mansion; the Gralhunds are fighting to 
hold the upsta irs. 
Gl. LOCKED GATES 
Through a set of ornate iron gates, the characters can 
see a yard with several large trees, as well as two foot­
paths that lead to a two-story brick mansion and east­
ward toward a detached coach house. 
An arcane lock spell is cast on the gates. Forcing them 
open requires a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) 
check , while picking the lock requires a successful 
DC 20 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. The spell 
doesn't bar members of the Gralhund family, their staff, 
their guards, or Lady Gralhund's nimblewr ight from 
opening the gates. 
G2. YARD 
The estate is well tended. In spring and summer, large 
trees provide shade. The trees begin shedding leaves in 
the fall. By winter, their branches are stripped bare. 
Balcony. Through the trees, the characters can see 
a large balcony (area G17) enclosed by an iron railing 
above the mansion's main entrance. The balcony is 
20 feet above ground level, and scaling the mansion's 
brjck walls to reach it without the aid of climbing gear 
or magic requires a successful DC 15 Strength (Athlet­
ics) check. 
Evil Groundskeeper. The yard is looked after by a 
menacing groundskeeper named Hurv Taldred (LE 
male Illuskan cult fana tic) and his two quiet mastiffs . 
The Gralhunds paid a necromancer to perform a ritual 
on Hurv and his mastiffs. After sundown, the physical 
forms of these figures melt away, and they become three 
s hadows until dawn. Characters who succeed on a DC 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALL 
13 Dexter ity (Stealth) check can cross the yard without 
being detected. Otherwise, Hurv and his hounds detect 
the characters and attack, day or night. 
G3. COACH HOUSE 
This stone building contains a beautifully maintained 
coach and clean stables that house four draft horses 
and Lady Gralhund'sjet-b lack rid ing horse, named 
Maladar. A sliding wooden door bars access to the 
street and has a padlock on the outside that holds it 
shut. Picking the lock requires a successful DC 20 Dex­
terity check using thieves' tools. 
The larger room north of the stables contains tack 
and harness for each horse, as well as bales of hay and 
yard tools . The smaller room in the northwest corner 
has two cots: one for the groundskeeper, Hurv (see area 
G2), who sleeps during the day, and one for a stableboy 
named Ike (commoner ), who sleeps here at night. Ike is 
away (either picking up food for tl1e horses or out drink­
ing with friends) if the characters arrive during the day. 
Treasure . Lady Gralhund's horse is outfitted with 
horseshoes of speed and two saddlebags, each of which 
holds four 5-pound gold trade bars worth 250 gp each. 
G4. GUARD BARRACKS 
This one-story stone building attached to the mansion 
serves as quarters for twenty house guards. The main 
room contains ten bunk beds. Each comes with a pair 
of footlockers containing folded clothes and worthless 
personal effects. 
The room in the northwest corner contains wooden 
mannequins and racks designed to hold armor and 
weapons. Since there are no guards present, the manne­
quins and racks are bare. 
G5. KITCHEN 
An unlocked wooden door leads from the yard to the 
mansion's kitchen, which is stocked with cookware and 
utensils. A large fireplace is used for cooking meals. 
G6. PANTRY 
This pantry is lined with shelves containing dry food­
stuffs, spices, folded tablecloths, and jars of preserves. 
Casks of fresh water, ale, and wine are also stored here. 
Barr ed Door. A back door leads out to the street. This 
sturdy wooden door is barred shut on the inside. Forc­
ing it open from the outside requires a successful DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check and makes a lot of noise. 
Corpses . The Zhents have killed two servants, an 
older male human (the head butler) and a younger male 
halfting (a cook), and left their bodies on the floor. 
G7. LAUNDRY ROOM 
This room is where servants wash clothing. It con­
tains scrub buckets , wash basins. soap , mops, and 
chamber pots. 
Corpses. The Zhents have killed a servant, a mid­
dle-aged female human (the head maid), and left her 
body on the stairs leading up to the servants' quarters 
(area G19). The maid has a ring of keys on her belt that 
opens all the locked doors in the mansion as well as the 
cabinets in area G8. 