URSTUL FLOXIN 
Fight in Progress. Four veteran s of House Gralhund 
(each with 30 hit points remaining) are fighting off an 
attacking force of Zhents consisting of three thugs (each 
with 20 hit points remaining). The Zhents are trying to 
get to area G16, but the guards are blocking them. 
If the characters do nothing to affect the outcome of 
this fight, assume that it ends with three House GraJ­
hund veterans still alive and all the Zhents dead. 
Gl4. BALLROOM 
The door to this room is locked. A character using 
thieves' tools can pick the lock with a successful DC 15 
Dexterity check. The ballroom is unoccupied and con­
tains the following features: 
• Gilded mirrors, tasseled tapestries, and stained-glass 
lamps festoon the walls. Mounted above a fireplace is 
a stag's head made of blown glass. 
• The veined marble floor is polished to a mirror­
like sheen. 
• Tacky crystal chandeliers dang le from the ceiling, 
which has a mural depicting an orgy painted on it. 
Gl5. GUEST SUITE 
Until recentJy, this suite was set aside for the use of 
Urstul Floxin. Lord Gralhund has barricaded himself 
in area GlSb. using heavy furniture to block the door. 
Forcing it open requires a successful DC 18 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 
The characters encounter UrstuJ Floxin (see ap­
pendix B) in area GlSa. Urstul is wounded with 50 hit 
CHAPTER 3 I F'l.REnALl. 
points remaining and has no poison coati ng his weap­
ons, reducing his challenge rating to 3 (700 XP). He's 
trying to kjck open the door to area GlSb in a desperate 
attempt to capture Lord Gralhund and trade him for 
the Stone of Golorr. If he is accosted before reaching 
Lord Gralhund, Urstul tries to flee the villa and uses any 
other surviving Zbents to cover his escape. He knows 
the sa me information that Lord Gralhund does (see 
"Orond Gralhund" below) but won't divulge it or the 
name of his maste r, Manshoon, unless he's magically 
compelled to do so. 
Area GlSa is a bathroom. A curtain to the east has 
been drawn back. revealing a claw-footed bathtub. 
Area Gl Sb is a wood-paneled bedchamber with a bird­
cage on a table and a permanent teleportation circle in­
scribed on the floor. The birdcage contains three flying 
s nakes that Urstul uses to deliver messages to his spies 
throughout the city. The circle is used by Manshoon to 
meet secretly with Urstul Floxin and to teleport Zhents 
to and from Kolat Towers (see chapter 8). See the tele­
portation circle spell description in the Player's Hand­
book for more information on how the circle functions. 
Orond Gralhund . Having blocked the bedroom door 
with a wardrobe, a desk, and an overstuffed chair, 
Orond Gralhund (see appendix B) cowers behind a bed 
in the southwest corner of area GlSb. Although he's 
armed with a rapier , Orond throw s hjmself at the mercy 
of the first person to bust through his barricade. 
Characters who have Lord Gralhund at their mercy 
ca n pry the following information from him with a 