successful DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) check, but 
the check is made with disadvantage if Lord Gralhund 
has reason to believe his wife can see or overhear the 
conversation: 
"The Stone ofGolorr is some kind of ancient creature 
transformed into an artifact. It knows the location 
of a hidden vault in Waterdcep containing half a mil­
lion dragons ." 
• "House Gralhund has been bankrolling Black Net­
work operations in Waterdeep, including the plot 
to kidnap Renaer Neverember and the plot to steal 
the Stone ofGolorr from his father's gnome spy, 
Dalakhar." 
• "My wife was frustrated with the Zhents and their 
inability to secure the artifact. She gave a necklace of 
fireballs to her mechanical servant and sent it out to 
help retrieve the stone. It was careless and caught the 
Zhents in the fireball by mistake." 
Gl6. MASTER BEDROOM 
The doors to this room have been thrown open. The 
room contains the following occupants and features: 
• Yala b Gralhund , wearing a breastplate and armed 
with a rapier, stands next to her well-dressed half­
orc bodyguard. Hra bba z (see appendix B for their 
statistics). 
• A locked wooden trunk rests at the foot of a large, can­
opied bed in the southwest corner. 
• A claw-footed bathtub sits in the northwest alcove 
near a freestanding mirror and a pr ivacy screen. 
Hanging above a fireplace in the southeast corner is a 
shield that bears the Gralhund coat of arms. Logs are 
stacked neatly next to the hearth. 
• A tall mahogany wardrobe stuffed with expensive 
gowns and dress clothes stands next to a pair of open 
glass doors leading out to a balcony. 
Yaish Gralhund. Lady Gralhund gave the Stone of 
Golorr and a map of where to take it to her nimblewright 
servant, who has left the villa by the time the characters 
reach this chamber. Its escape is crucial, since it sets 
into motion the events in chapter 4. 
Lady Gralhund and Hrabbaz are the only people who 
know where the nimblewright has gone, but they feign 
ignorance when questioned about it. 
Yalah carries a ring of keys that open alJ locked doors 
in the mansion, as well as the locked wooden trunk at 
the foot of the bed. If her situation turns dire and Hrab­
baz is unable to protect her, Yalah unlocks the door to 
area Gl8, rushes inside, and locks the door behind her 
with her next action. She makes her final stand there, 
with her children cowering behind her. 
Wooden Trunk . The lock on the trunk can be picked 
with thieves' tools and a successful DC 15 Dexterity 
check. The trunk appears to contain folded clothes 
and shoes. A secret compartment in the bottom can be 
detected by someone who examines the outside of the 
trunk and makes a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check. The compartment holds two holy symbols 
of Asmodeus and two robes, each red and gold in color. 
Lord and Lady GraJhund are both secret members of a 
cult of Asmodeus worshipers popular among select no­
bles in Waterdeep. The cult is led by Lord Victoro Cas­
salanter (see appendix B). though the Gralhunds won't 
divulge this informatio n willingly. 
Gl7. BALCONY 
Th is large balcony is enclosed by an ornate wrought­
iron railing and has lounge cha irs neat ly arra nged on it. 
The ground is 20 feet below, and open glass doors lead 
to the master bedroom (area GJ6). 
Gl8. CHILDREN'S ROOM 
The door to this room is locked. The lock can be 
picked with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using 
thieves· tools. 
Three beds line the south wall, and an empty cradle 
rests against the east wall. Other furnishings include 
squat wardrobes, play rugs, and children's desks. 
Childr en. Confined here for their safety are the Gral­
hunds' two youngest children, a 13-year-old boy named 
Zartan and a 10-year-old boy named Greth. Both are 
noncombatants. Their 18-year -old sister, Tomassin, is 
visiting a tiefling cousin in Yartar. 
Gl9. SERVANTS' W I NG 
Three rooms in the southeast area of the upper floor are 
where the servants sleep al night. The head butler and 
head maid have rooms to themselves, but those places 
are currently unocc upied. The largest of the three cham­
bers is a commo n room containing six bunk beds for 
the junior staff. A tota l of nine maids, cooks, a nd valets 
(commoner s) are holed up here, wa iting for someone 
to rescue them. They are armed with improvised weap­
ons {rolling pins, mops, brooms , and the like) that are 
treated as clubs. 
AFTERMATH 
After fleeing Gralhund Villa with the Stone ofGolorr, 
Lady Gralhund's nimblewright hides the artifact in 
a secret location in Waterdeep. setting the stage for 
chapter 4. 
Even if the bloody con flict at Gralhund Villa goes 
unnoticed outside the walls of the estate, the carnage 
can't be hidden from the City Watch for long. There are 
too many murdered servants and guards for anyone 
to conceal what has tra nspired. The arrival of the City 
Watch foreshadows the return of Barnibus Blastwind 
and Saeth Cromley (see appendix 8), who arrive in due 
course with twenty constables (veterans) and two Grif­
fon Cavalry riders (see appendix B) astride griffons . 
The griffons and their riders remain airborne, providing 
aerial support and reco nnaissance. 
Barnibus thoroughly investigates the Gralhund Villa 
crime scene and questions neighbors and bystande rs. 
Characters who are seen leaving the scene become sus­
pects. If the characters killed any members of the Gral­
hund family and left witness es or evidence of the act, 
Barnibus instructs Sergeant Cromley to arrest them for 
the crime of murdering a noble. which carries a death 
sentence if they're found guilty. 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBAL L 