OLD MAKES PEOPLE DO STRANGE THINGS, AND 
Lord Neverember's hidden cache of dragon s 
is up for grabs. The Stone of Golorr knows 
where the treasure vault is located and how to 
get inside, and much of this chapter focuses on 
the characters' hunt for the artifact. The cha l­
lenges before them depend on the villain (or 
villains) that you selected to oppose them. Whatever the 
season, a villain's goals are simp le: obtain the stone, find 
the Vault of Dragons, and claim the treasure within. 
SETTING THE STAGE 
In chapter 3, Lady Gralhund's nimblewright took the 
Stone ofGolorr and fled with it. The nimblewright de­
livers the artifact to a location and leaves it there for the 
main villain or villains to retrieve: 
If Xanathar is the villain, the stone is delivered to a 
mage named Grinda Garloth. She owns an apparatus 
of Kwalish and lives in Mistshore, a seedy neighbor­
hood built on a dock in the Dock Ward. 
• If the Cassalanters are the villains, the stone is left in 
their family crypt in Waterdeep's cemetery, the City of 
the Dead. A halfiing necromancer gets to it before the 
Cassa lant ers or the characters do. 
• lfjarlaxle is the villain, the stone is delivered to 
Fenerus Stormcastle, a lamplight er in the Trades 
Ward. Penerus has a c riminal history and is currently 
in trouble with the law. 
• lf Manshoon is the villain, the stone is brought to 
Thrakkus, a dragonborn butcher in the Field Ward 
who chops up bodies for the Zhentarim. 
FINDING THE NIMBLEWRIGHT ----
If the characters can't pick up the trail after the nimble-
wright escapes with the Stone ofGolorr, they might turn 
to the City Watch, the City Guard. or a friendly faction 
for help, which comes forth in ld4 days. If it occurs to 
none of the characters, an N PC suggests that the party 
visit the House of Jnspired Hands to see whether the 
priests of Gond know a way to find it (see "Ni m's Se­
cret," page 46). Thereafter, armed with Nim's nimble­
wright detector, the characters can sweep the city. But 
by the time they find the nimblewright, it has already 
delivered the Stone of Golorr to its intended destination. 
CAUGHT AT LAST! 
When it is finally found, the nimblewrigbt (see appen­
dix B) is wearing a stolen cloak and hiding under a 
pile of uncollected garbage in an alley. Exactly where 
and when the characters stumble upon it is up to you. 
With nowhere to go and no other purpose, it fights until 
destroyed. Regardless of where and when this event 
takes place, six members of the City Watch (veterans ) 
arrive as the fight ends . Drawn by the commotion, the 
Watch cou ldn't ca re less about the nimblewright and 
believes any plausible story the cha racters tell them. (As 
a construct, it had no rights to spea k of.) The officers 
CHAPTER 4 I D RAGON SEASO ~ 