are near the end of their s hift and eager to move on; 
they urge the characters to go home and cause no fur­
ther mischief. 
LADY GRALHUND'S MAP 
Lady Gralhund gave her nimblewright a map showing 
where to take the Stone ofGolorr, but she forgot to 
tell it to destroy the map once the stone was delivered. 
Characters who sea rch the nimblewright's remains find 
the folded-up map, which depicts one of Waterdeep's 
wards. Written on the map is an X with a name next to 
it. This map points the characte rs to where they need to 
be, setting off a sequence of encoun ters (see "Encoun­
ter Chains" below). Th e main villain determ ines which 
ward the map depicts and what name is written on it: 
If Xanathar is the villain, "Grinda Garloth" is written 
by the X on a map of the Dock Ward. (The X marks the 
dock neighborhood of Mistshore, where Grind a lives.) 
• If the Cassalanters are the villains, the name "Cas­
salanter" is written by the X on a map of the City of the 
Dead. (The X marks the location of the Cassalanter 
mausoleum.) 
• IfJarlaxle is the villain, "Fe nerus Stormcastle" is writ­
ten by the X on a map of the Trades Ward. (Residents 
of the Trades Ward know Fenerus. He's a lamp light er 
with an alley dwelling. The X marks the alley.) 
OBTAINING THE STONE OF GOLORR 
The Stone of Colorr possesses an intelligent, alien intellect 
and has enough prescience to realize that the characters 
are destined to find it. The stone doesn't want to be found 
too easily, though. 
If the characters obtain the stone earlier than expected, it 
proves uncooperative and tries to separate itself from the 
party as quickly as possible, refusing to share any knowl­
edge with characters in the meantime. The stone tries to 
take control of anyone who attunes to it, triggering a con­
fl ict (see "Sentient Magic Items" in chapter 7 of the Dun­
geon Master's Guide). If the stone fails to take control, it 
can't try again against that character until the next dawn. If 
the stone succeeds in taking control of its owner, it orders 
that character to deliver it to whichever location sets into 
motion the sequence of encounters discussed in this chap­
ter (see "Encounter Chains"). Once the stone divests itself 
of its current owner, it tries to erase all knowledge of itself 
from that character's mind (see the item's description in 
appendix A). Any player whose character is forced to for­
get about the stone carries the burden of roleplaying that 
memory loss. You can award inspiration to that character 
as a way to acknowledge the player's good roleplaying. 
As chapter 4 unfolds, you decide when it's time for the 
characters to have a chance of securing the Stone of Golorr. 
Try to keep it out of their hands for as long as possible to 
maximize the suspense. 
Once the characters have earned the Stone of Go/orr, it 
no longer tries to take control of them. A character can 
attune to it and learn the following information: 
• The location of the Vault of Dragons (see "Vault of Drag­
ons," page 94) 
• The three keys required to unlock the vault's doors (see 
"Vault Keys," page 90) 
• The name of the vault's gold dragon guardian, and the 
powers of the staff in its possession (see the description 
of the dragonstaff of Ahghairon in appendix A) 
OFl'APTER 4- I DRACON SEASON 
• 1f Manshoon is the villain, "Thrakkus'' is written by 
the X on a map of the Field Ward. (The X marks the 
location ofThrakkus's butcher shop and residence.) 
ENCOUNTER CHAINS 
Eight encounters comprise the characters' hunt for the 
Stone ofGolorr and the Vault of Dragons. They form a 
chain, and their order is determined by your choice of 
villain and season. The diagram on the facing page illus­
trates the order of encounters in each chain. IfXanathar 
is the villain, for examp le, the chain begins with encoun­
ter 2, "Mistshore ," and ends with encounter 6, "Theater." 
Don't feel bound by an encounter chain. Let the char­
acters' decisions and actions drive the story. You can 
change the order in which encoun ters happen, remove 
encounte rs you don't need, or create new encounte rs. 
You can also modify encounters to suit your tastes . 
If the characters stray, they might find themselves at a 
loss for what to do next. You have a couple of easy ways 
to guide them back on track: 
A friendly faction that has information about the 
whereabouts of the Stone of Golorr whereabouts can 
bring that knowledge to the characters . 
• A treacherous underling of the villain reveals the loca­
tion of the Stone of Golorr for a price. 
SPRING ENCOUNTER CHAIN 
Ah, springtime -when beholder eyestalks are in bloom. 
The Stone ofGoiorrwas originally snatched from Xana­
thar, and the eye tyrant wants it back. It sends monsters 
and minions to do its dirty work. 
SUMMARY 
The stone is delivered to Grinda Garloth, a mage who 
has worked for Xanathar in the past. When she refuses 
to give up the stone, members of the Xanathar Guild 
try to take it by force (encounter 2, "Mistshore"). After 
the characters defeat these attackers, they learn that 
Grinda told her rat familiar to hide the stone in her fam­
ily's crypt in the City of the Dead. From this point on, 
the cha racters are followed by a gazer (see appendix B), 
through whose eyes Xanathar can see. If this gazer is 
killed, Xanathar doesn't send another one to replace it. 
Losser Mirklav, a halfling necromancer, raids the Gar­
loth mausoleum and takes the stone sho rtly before the 
characte rs arrive (encounter 4, "Mausoleum"). As they 
emerge from the mausoleum, members of the Xanathar 
Guild attack them, believing they have the stone . A clue 
left behind in the mausoleum lead s the characters to 
an old windmiU in the Southern Ward and a pair of 
grave robbers (encounter 10, "Converted Windmill"). 
Fearing arrest, the grave robbers point them to a cellar 
complex under the Trades Ward (encounter 9, "Cellar 
Comp lex"). When the characters arrive , they find Losser 
surrounded by foes and kenku working for the Xana­
thar Guild making off with the stone. A chase through 
the streets on or before Trolltide (encounter 3, "Street 
Chase") ends when the kenku , fearing capture. duck 
into an old tower (encounter 7, "Old Tower"). If they are 
caug ht and confronted, the kenku hand over the stone. 