INTRODUCTION 
ELCOME TO WATERDEEP, THE CROWN OF 
the North, where a wondrous tale of urban 
adventure is about to unfold. Our story 
begins with the gathering of adventurers 
at the Yawning Portal Inn and Tavern. 
Volothamp Geddarm, the famous explorer 
and raconteur, has a quest for them-one 
that entangles the characters in a bitter conflict between 
two nefarious organizations. lf the adventurers com­
plete his quest, Volo rewards them handsomely. Yet a 
much greater prize lies hidden somewhere in the City of 
Splendors, waiting to be claimed. 
Waterdeep: Dragon Heist is a DUNGEONS & DRAGONS 
adventure designed for characters starting at 1st level. 
By the end of the story, the characters will be at least 
5th level. If you're planning to run through the adven­
ture as a player, stop reading now! 
If you're looking for higher -level adventure content set 
in Waterdeep, a companion product titled Waterdeep: 
Dungeon of the Mad Mage explores the vast dungeon 
under Waterdeep known as Undermountain and is de­
signed for characters of levels all the way up to 20th. 
STORY O VERVI EW 
Waterdeep: Dragon Heist is a treasure hunt set against 
an urban backdrop. The adventure's plot can be summa­
rized as follows: 
• Half a million gold coins are hidden somewhe re in 
Waterdeep. Many individuals know about the cache 
and are looking for it. Adventurers can join the hunt 
and prevent the cache from falling into evil hands. 
• The city is threatened by escalating tension between 
two power groups that is on the verge of flaring into 
violence. The Zhentarim, a shadowy network of mer­
cenaries, and Xanathar, the beholder crime lord of 
Waterdeep, are at odds, and when they clash, the char­
acters are pulled into the conflict. 
CACHE OF DRAGONS 
In Waterdeep, a gold coin is called a dragon. Before he 
was ousted from his position as the Open Lord ofWater­
deep, Dagult Neverember embezzled half a million 
dragons and hid them in a secret vault. As a security 
precaution, he arranged for all knowledge of the vault's 
location and defenses to be magically erased from his 
mind and the minds of his subordinates. The wizard 
who perform ed the procedure trapped this know ledge 
within an artifact called the Stone ofGolorr. The wizard 
disappeared shortly thereafter, and Dagult hid the stone 
in the Palace ofWaterdeep. 
Dagult was off rebuilding the city of Neverwinter when 
the other Lords ofWaterdeep voted him out of office. He 
immediately made plans to retrieve the Stone ofGolorr 
and smuggle his cache of dragons out ofWaterdeep. His 
spies plucked the stone from the palace but were killed 
while trying co leave the city. The stone was stolen and 
passed from one hand to another like a common jewel 
until it wound up in the clutches ofXanathar. 
USING THE P OSTER MAP 
The map in the back of this book has the city ofWaterdeep 
on both sides. One side can be shown to players. The 
other side is for the OM and includes tags marking import· 
ant locations in the adventure. 
The Stone of Golorr is actually an aboleth transformed 
by magic. In this inanimate state, the aboleth can read 
the mind of any creature that attunes to the stone, as 
well as modify that creature's memory. A creature at­
tuned to the stone can also extract information from the 
aboleth, including lore about Neverember's vault. 
Built long ago by dwarves, the vault is warded against 
all forms of magical detection and intrusion. Its current 
protector is an adult gold dragon named Aurinax, who 
is also the current wielder and guard ian of the dragon­
staff of Ahghairon, which bas the power to prevent other 
dragons from entering the city. Tn exchange for the staff, 
Aurinax promised to guard the gold until such time as 
Nevere mber or his appointed vassals removed it. 
WAR IN THE STREETS 
Beneath the city streets lurks a criminal underworld, 
its leader a beholder called Xanathar. Hoping to gain a 
political foothold in Waterdeep, agents of the Zhentarim 
(also known as the Black Network) rece ntly tried to ally 
their organization with the Xanathar Guild. The archi­
tect of this attempt was a clone of the wizard Manshoon, 
a founder of the Black Network long thought dead. 
While the two sides were negotiating in Xanathar's 
lair, the Stone ofGolorr suddenly disappeared from 
where Xanathar had hidden it. The paranoid beholder 
accused the Black Network of stealing it and slew the 
Zhentarim envoys who were present. When the Zhents 
retaliated by attacking Xanathar Guild outposts, Xana­
thar took their actions as confirmation of the Black 
Network's vile intent ions. Now the bad blood between 
the Zhenta rim and Xanathar has begun to spill into the 
streets, threatening peace throughout the city. 
Who actually sto le the Stone ofGolorr? The answer: 
a rock gnome named Dalakhar. After Lord Neverember 
used magic to discern the gemstone's location, he sent 
forth a success ion of spies to infiltrate Xanathar's lair 
and obtain it. Dalakhar succeeded where many others 
before him had failed, but his success turns out to be 
short-lived. 
VOLO 's QUEST 
The Yawning Portal serves as the default sta rting point 
for this story. One of the first people the adventurers 
meet there is Volothamp Geddarm. He has just returned 
from a tour promoting his latest book, Volo'.s Guide to 
Monsters, and he has a quest for the characters. 
One ofVolo's friends, a handsome simpleton named 
Floon Blagmaar, has disappeared, seemingly kid­
napped. The search for Floon leads to the revelation 
that he was caught up in a case of mistaken identity, and 
the cha racters are actually looking for two victims . The 
intended target was Lord Neverember's estranged son, 
INTRODUCTION 