GRINDll GARLOTM AND 11ER APPl\Rll TUS O F KWALIS .. 
03. GRINDA'S APPARATUS 
Grinda Garloth keeps her apparatus of Kwalish here 
when she's not using the vehicle to hunt for treasure in 
Deepwater Harbor. While the apparatus is here, it ftoats 
in an enclosed dock. Underwater metal doors leading 
out to the harbor are kept shut by an iron bar across the 
inside. The apparatus can lift the iron bar automatically; 
a creature inside the bay can lift it with a successfu l DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check. 
Borrowing the Apparatus . Crinda allows the char­
acters to borrow her apparatus of Kwalisi1 on the condi­
tion that they first use the device to search the bottom 
of Deepwater Harbor for treasure and give her half of 
whatever they find. To meet the mage's demands. the 
characters must spend a day searching the harbor. At 
the end of the day, the pilot makes an Intelligence (In­
vestigation) check. Multiply the total of the check by 10 
to determine the gold piece value of any treasure found. 
Crinda sells the bounty and gives half to the characters. 
As lhe characters search the harbor for treasure, roll 
any die. If an even number is rolled, an awake ned shark 
named Obliteros attacks them. Grinda has had several 
close encounters with the shark recently. but fails to 
mention this to the characters for fear of scaring them 
off. Obliteros is a giant shark , with these changes: 
• The shark's alignment is chaotic evil. 
• Its Intelligence score is 10 (+0), and it can speak and 
understand Aquan. 
C H APTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
MISTS H ORE: S PRI NG 
Xanathar has sent forces to collect the Stone ofGolorr 
from Grinda Garloth, known up and down the wharf as 
an eccentric wizard who owns a submersible contrap­
tion that she uses to hunt for treasure on the bottom of 
Deepwater Harbor. The characters have no trouble get­
ting directions to her Mistshore residence (area 02). 
When the characters arrive at her home, Grinda is 
holed up inside, having barricaded the doors with furni ­
ture. Trying to break down the doors are four members 
of the Xanathar GuiJd (CE male human bandits ) under 
the command of a dwarf enforcer named Noska Ur'gray 
(see appendix B). A merrow also under Noska's com­
mand swims beneath the docks. It surfaces to attack 
when the characters arrive. 
If the characters come to Grinda's defense. Noska 
orders his thugs to attack them while he takes potshots 
at the characters with his crossbow. Two rounds later, 
eight more bandits leap down from the Kraken's Folly 
(area DJ) and join the fray. These hooligans were paid 1 
gp each to watc h Noska's back. The characters can turn 
them against Noska by offering a larger bribe (at least 
5 gp each). 
If the characters turn the hooligans against oska or 
reduce the dwarf to half his hit points or fewer. Noska 
flees. Any remaining Xanathar Guild members cover his 
escape. Grinda emerges from her residence to thank the 
characters once the fight has concluded. 