WHERE'S THE STONE? 
Grinda admits that she has done business with the 
Xanathar Guild in the past. Her orders were to pro-
tect the stone until Noska arrived to claim it, but she 
changed her mind and decided to keep the stone for her­
seU. She now realizes that decision was a mistake. 
Grinda tells the characters that she gave the stone to 
her rat familiar and told the creature to stash it in her 
family's mausoleum in the City of the Dead. The mage 
gives the cha racters directions to the site and a key to 
the mausoleum. (They won't need the key, since the 
mausoleum is open when they arrive.) 
SPY IN THE SKY 
As the characters leave Mistshore, a gazer (see appen­
dix B) begins to follow them, staying at least 60 feet 
away. Xanathar uses it to spy on the characters. Charac­
ters who have a passive Perception score of 15 or higher 
can spot the gazer short ly after the party enters the City 
of the Dead. The gazer defends itself if attacked. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Armed with directions to the Garloth mausoleum, the 
characters can head for the City of the Dead. The spring 
chain continues with encounter 4, "Mausoleum ." 
MIST SHOR E: AUTU MN 
At the end of their pursuit, the characters corner Fel'rekt 
Lafeen and Krebbyg Masq'il'yr in Mistshore. The two 
drow gunslinger s (see appendix B) lurk behind the 
Kraken's Folly (area Dl) and wait to be rescued . When 
the characters confront them, Fel'rekt and Krebbyg stall 
for time until their escape vehicle arrives. If either drow 
falls, the other tosses the stone into the harbor to keep it 
from falling into enemy hands. A character can recover 
the sunken stone by using a detect magic spell to help 
pinpoint its location. 
BTGBELCHY 
A mechanica l dragon turt le, dubbed Big Belchy, sank 
in Deepwater Harbor almost a century ago. Lantanese 
gnomes working for JarlaxJe have managed to repair 
the construct. Two rounds after the characters corner 
Fel'rekt and Krebbyg, Big Belchy surfaces next to the 
dock on initiative count 5, close enough that the drow 
can leap onto its barnacle-enc rusted back on their 
next turns. 
In the round after it surfaces, the mechanism breathes 
a cloud of steam onto the docks in a 30-foot cube, then 
begins to move away at a swimming speed of 20 feet. 
Any creature in the cloud of steam must make a DC 14 
Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (4d10) fire damage on 
a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful 
one. Big Belchy can breathe steam only once. On each 
of its turns thereafter, it swims a total of 40 feet toward 
j arlaxle's flagship, the Eyecatciler, which is anchored in 
the middle of the harbor 1 mile away. 
Big Belchy has AC 18. 75 hit points, and immunity 
to poison and psychic damage. If it is reduced to 0 hit 
points, it sinks once more to the bottom of Deepwater 
Harbor. If the drow are still on its back when it goes 
down, they swim the rest of the way to the Eyecatciler 
but gain two levels of exhaustion from the cold water 
and exertion. 
If the drow are defeated while on Big Belchy's back, 
the Stone of Go/orr tumbles off the mechanical dragon 
turtle's shell and drops into Deepwater Harbor. If the 
water is deep enough, the characters might need to bor­
row Grinda Garloth's apparatus of Kwalish to recover it. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
lf a character becomes attuned to the Stone of Golorr, it 
reveals the location of the Vault of Dragons, beneath an 
old stone windmill in the Sea Ward, and the three keys 
needed to enter it. When the characters are ready to visit 
the location , proceed with encounter 10, "Converted 
Windmil l." 
MISTSHORE : W INTE R 
The characters head to Mistshore in search of the man 
they believe has the Stone ofGolorr. En route to that 
destination, the man had his hire-coach make a brief 
stop in the Castle Ward to drop off his lady friend. She 
now bas the stone - a fact that characters can discover 
by questioning the man, a bard named Agorn Fuoco. 
Agorn made such a good impression on Manshoon 
that he was elevated quickly through the ranks of the 
organization, but his life is full of disappointment oth­
erwise . He has not achieved the fame he craved nor 
earned the wealth he felt he was entitled to. He has 
adopted the Zhentarim credo that power comes to those 
who deserve it and has come to see the Black Network 
as a new family of sorts. Agorn has come to Mistshore to 
visit a member of his actual family-his mother, who is 
gravely ill and Jives in abject poverty. 
A WAITING COACH 
Waiting at the edge of the neighborhood is the hire­
coach that bore Agoro Fuoco through the blizzard to 
Mistshore. Two draft horse s stamp their hooves impa­
tiently in the snow. The driver, Rowan Evenwood (LG 
female Chondathan human commoner ), was paid extra 
to wait for Agorn to return. He left in a hur ry, and she 
doesn't know how long she is expected to wait, but her 
patience has lim its. 
A COLD RECEPTION 
A blizzard is tearing through Mistshore, turning its 
rotten tenements into dark, looming shapes behind 
veils of blowing snow. The water around the docks is 
frozen solid, and impoverished commoners clad in tat­
tered garments gather around sputtering campfires for 
warmth. These folk are suspicious of anyone they don't 
recognize and far from welcoming, even toward those 
who show them charity . These people would tear the 
clothes from the characters' backs given half a chance. 
ICE ESCAPADES 
Playing on the ice underneath the docks are three street 
urchins wearing frayed cloaks and gloves. They dart 
in and out of view, hurling snowballs at each other and 
laughing as the blizzard batters the structures above 
them (see "The Three Urchins," page 63). 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON S"EASON 