AHCHAIRON
1
S DRACON WA RD 
Waterdeep is blanketed by an undispellable magical effect 
called Ahghoiron's drogonword. The effect originates from 
somewhere under Ahghairon's Tower in the Castle Ward 
and is permanent. Dragons and all other creatures of the 
dragon type are physically unable to enter the city (or its 
sewers) as long as the dragonward persists. The effect 
doesn 't extend to the harbor or into Undermountain. 
A creature of the dragon type that is touched by the 
dragonstoff of Ahghoiron (see appendix A) can ignore Ah­
ghairon's drogonward and move through the city freely. The 
effect lasts until the creature is touched again by the staff, 
or until the passage of a period of time specified by one 
who is attuned to the staff. 
The dragonstaffis currently in the possession of an adult 
gold dragon named Aurinax (see appendix B), who guards 
a hidden vault under the city. 
Renaer Neverember. Agents of the Zhentarim waylaid 
him because they want to know everything that Renaer 
knows about the cache of dragons. (Unfortunately for 
them, Rcnaer is ignorant of lhe cache and its where­
abouts.) If the characters rescue him, Renaer proves to 
be a worthy ally to adventurers hoping to make a name 
for themselves in Waterdeep. 
As a reward for rescuing Floon, Volo gives adventur­
ers the deed to a building in the North Ward that looks 
out onto a wide cul-de-sac hemmed in by old residences 
and shops. The property used to be a tavern with a res­
idence on the upper Doors. The tavern has been closed 
for years, and the residence is haunted by a poltergeist 
that the characters can lay to rest. 
FIREBALL! 
As time goes on, the characters attract the attention of 
local factions hoping to recruit them while they settle 
into the city. Eventually, these relatively peaceful times 
are shattered when a fireball detonates near their new 
residence. The characters are swept up in the aftermath 
of this horrific event and can try to get to the bottom of 
it. Who cast the fireball spell and why? Who was the 
intended target? They can investigate the incident on be­
half of a gui ld or a faction, or they can become involved 
for reasons of their own. 
One casua lty of the fireball is in fact its intended tar­
get: Lord Neverember's spy, Dalakhar. Whoever killed 
the gnome now has the Stone ofGolorr, the key to find­
ing the lost cache of dragons. One way or another, de­
pending on the alliances - and the enemies-they have 
made in the city. the characters become embroiled in 
the chase for the stone and the hoard it protects. 
CHOOS E Y OU R VILLAI N 
When you run this adventure, you choose its main vil­
lain at the outset. Your choice determines the season of 
the year in which the story takes place, as well as the an­
tagonists in several of the encounters in chapter 4. The 
villain you choose opposes the player characters, while 
the villains you don't choose become part of the back­
drop and cou ld help the characters or hinder them. 
As another unusual feature of this adventure, the 
villains aren't meant to be killed, nor are they out to kill 
the player cha racters. The villains are after a treasure 
INTRO DUCT ION 
hoard, and the adventurers' ultimate goal is to keep the 
treasure out of their clutches. 
You can swap out one villain for another at any time. 
For example, if you decide halfway through the ad­
venture that because of how the story has progressed 
Jarlaxle Baenre would make a better antagonist than 
Xanathar, you can make that change on the fly and run 
subsequent encounters accordingly. 
Each villain is fully described in appendix Band sum­
marized below. 
XANATHAR 
Xanathar is a paranoid, megalomaniacal beholder crime 
lord whose goal is to wipe out anyone it perceives as a 
Zhentarim operative or sympathizer, retrieve the Stone 
ofGolorr, and secure the cache of dragons. Its base is a 
dungeon under Skullport, a subterranean settlement be­
neath Waterdeep. This lair is described in chapter 5. 
Xanathar has a healthy fear ofLaeral Silverha nd and 
is inclined to spare those in her employ, to avoid provok­
ing a conflict with Waterdeep's Open Lord. Adventurers 
who incur the wrath of the beholder can use its fear of 
Laeral to escape certain death. 
If you choose Xanathar as the villain, the adventu re 
takes place in the spring. 
THE CASSALANTERS 
Victoro and Ammalia Cassalanter are Waterdavian no­
bles and secret devil worshipers. The Cassalanters plan 
to use the cache of dragons to buy back the souls of their 
children, which they traded to Asmodeus for power. 
Their estate, Cassalanter Villa, has a temple of Asmo­
deus hidden underneath it, as described in chapter 6. 
The Cassalanters try to misdirect and discredit the 
characters rather than murder them. Victoro and Am­
malia rely on their noble status to protect them, and the 
last thing they want is the City Watch on their doorstep. 
If you choose the Cassalanters as the villains, the ad­
venture takes place in U1e summer. 
~RLAXLE B AENRE 
Jarlaxle Baenre is a drow swashbuckler and the secret 
lord of Luskan, the City of Sails.jarlaxle plans to use 
the cache of dragons to buy his way into the Lords' 
Alliance, a confederation of cities and towns that band 
together against common threats.Jarlaxle also wants 
the dragonstaff of Ahghairon for leverage in his nego­
tiations. In the magical guise of a human sea captain 
named Zardoz Zord,Jarlaxle runs a traveling carnival 
called the Sea Maidens Faire and lairs aboard a ship in 
Waterdeep's harbor that has a submarine (the Scarlet 
Marpenoth) underneath it, as described in chapter 7. 
jarlaxle delights in thwarting his enemies, enjoys the 
complications that arise when adventurers try to meddle 
in his affairs, and loves to see the looks on their faces 
when he finally gets the better of them. He doesn't suffer 
fools who threaten him, however. If forced into a violent 
confrontation, he swiftly and brutally kills someone to 
make an example of them and then walks off. 
If you choose Jarlaxle as the villain, the adventure 
takes place in the autumn. 