Once they have the stone, the street urchins quickly 
lose themselves in the crowd. If Willifort the doppel ­
ganger is still around, he tries to slip away, believing he 
still bas the stone. The imp, if present, turns invisible 
and circles above the crowd in a futile attempt to find 
the stone. 
A character can use an action to search the crowded 
street by making a DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
On a successful check, the character spots an iron 
grate in the street that wasn't closed properly . Lifting it 
reveals an iron ladder that descends 10 feet to an under ­
ground sewer tunnel. Cha racte rs who lower themselves 
into the tunnel can hear the sounds of splash ing water 
and children's voices in the distance and might decide to 
follow them. (The children are holding hand s in the dark 
and being guided by Squiddly, who has darkvision.) 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If the characters follow the street urchins into the sewer, 
proceed with encounter 9, "Cellar Comp lex." 
STREET CHASE: WI N TER 
After leaving the theater, the characters resume their 
pursuit of the elusive Zhent spy, Vevette Blackwater (CE 
female Tethyrian human swashbuckler; see appendix 
B). She leads them on a merry chase through snowy 
streets until she is finally caught or until the characters 
give up the chase. She starts 30 feet away from the char­
acters . If forced to make an ability check or saving throw 
because of a chase comp lication , she has advantage on 
the roll. Also, she can use the Dash action during the 
chase without having to make Constitut ion checks to 
avoid exhaustion. 
WHE RE'S THE STONE? 
If she is caught, Vevette sur renders. She's counting on 
the law to protect her from serious harm, and she knows 
she has done nothing to warrant arrest. Vevette no lon­
ger has the Stone ofGolo rr, after parting with it back in 
the theater . She doesn't willingly divulge who has the 
stone, though the characters can pry the information 
from her us ing a charm person spell or similar magic. 
If the characters return to the theater , Remallia 
Haventree (see appendix 8) waves them over and tells 
them that she saw two people exit the theater shortly 
after they did and then depart together in a hire-coach 
shortly thereafter. One of them is a bard named Agorn 
Fuoco, the other a woman unknown to Lady Haventree. 
Both Remallia and Vevette know that Agorn spends 
time around the dangerous dockside neighborhood of 
Mistshore. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Proceed with encounter 2, "Mistshore ." 
ENCOUNTER 4: MAUSOLEUM 
The City of the Dead is a public park dotted with mauso ­
leums . The place is closed at night, with two City Guard 
soldiers (guards ) stationed at each entry gate. A charac­
ter can slip over a wall undetected with a successful DC 
15 Dexterity (Stealth) check . 
At dusk, hundreds of driftglobes make their way from 
the inhabited part of the city and congregate in the City 
of the Dead. They spend the night here, then dispers e 
and return to the waking city at dawn-for a reason no 
one knows. 
Sir Ambrose Everdawn (LG male human Tethyrian 
knight ), an aging servant of Kelemvor (god of the dead), 
patrols the cemetery from sunset to sunrise, chasing off 
grave robbers and making sure the dead stay buried. 
Characters who creep around the cemetery in the dark 
have a 30 percent chance of running into him. If that 
happens, he escorts them out and alerts the City Guard 
if they refuse to leave. 
AREA S OF THE M AUS OLE U M 
Rooms in the mausoleum have 8-foot-high ceilings, with 
6-foot-high passages and doorways connecting them. 
The following location s are keyed to map 4.3. 
Ml . G ROU ND LEVEL 
Unless the text of an encounter says otherwise, the 
stone double door to the mausoleum is locked. The lock 
can be picked by a character who makes a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, or the door 
can be forced open with a successful DC 25 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 
Inside, a family emblem is emblazoned on the floor 
between four ostentatious marble coffins. The coffins, 
engraved with the names of those interred within, con­
tain nothing but dust and bones. 
M2 . UNDERG ROUND CRYPTS 
Empty sconces adorn the walls. Cobwebs and dust indi­
cate that no one has tended to this place in a long time. 
Stone coffins in alcoves contain dust and bones. 
MAUSOL EUM: SPRI NG 
This encounter begins when the characters come to the 
Garloth mausoleum seeking the Stone ofGolorr. The 
double door to the mausoleum is open when they arrive. 
Earlier, Grinda Garloth's rat familiar arrived to find 
the mausoleum open and grave robbers inside. They 
killed the rat, took the stone, and fled along with the 
ske leta l remains of Grinda's ancestors. Characte rs who 
search the plundered crypts find neither the rat nor the 
stone, but they do find a clue left behind by one of the 
grave robbers (see "Crypt Clue" below). As the char­
acters make their way out, Xanathar Guild members 
attack them in an attempt to retrieve the stone. 
CRYPT CLUE 
Characters who search the underground crypts can find 
a shiny steel key lying in the dust on the floor. One of the 
grave robbers dropped it while looting the crypts. 
The characters can take the key to the Meta l House 
of Wonders, the guildhall of the Splendid Order of Ar­
morers, Locksmiths, and Finesmiths in the Dock Ward, 
or to any local locksmith. ln either place, someone can 
identify the key as the handiwork of a dwarf locksmith 
in the Trades Ward named Elaspra Ulmarr. Characters 
who visit Elaspra's shop can learn from her that she 
made a key for a client who bought one of her excellent 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 