each lockbox holds lOdlO sp. After a performance, both 
boxes are empty. 
P4. AUDITORIUM 
The auditorium has the following features: 
• Cushioned seats are arranged in seven tiered rows 
facing a 5-foot-high wooden stage. Each row has 
twenty seats. 
• Behind a raised red curtain are pa inted backd rops 
and stage props for the current production. 
During a performance, a stage manager (commoner ) 
watches from the back of the seating area. 
P5. WING 
This small offstage area is painted black and has a table 
that holds fake daggers, swords, and other props. Prop 
weapons can be used in combat but deal only 1 blud­
geoning damage on a hit. 
P6. STAGE MANAGER'S OFF ICE 
This room holds a desk covered in papers. The stage 
manager (commoner ) stays here between performances. 
P7. GREEN R OOM 
A trio of mismatched couches and a stained beige rug 
are the main features of this room. whose walls are 
covered with light green paint. This is where the ac­
tors congregate when they aren't on stage or in their 
dressing rooms. 
Cll APTf. R 4 I DRAGO N SEASO N 
[ 
P8. DRESSING R OOMS 
This room contains clothes racks, tables lined with 
makeup, and Jong wall mirrors. During or immediately 
before a performance, each dressing room holds ld3 
actors (commoners ). 
T H EATE R: SPRI NG 
The name of the P ink Flumph theater is disp layed on 
a sign mounted to the building's facade. Posters on 
the outside wa lls advertise the latest shows, Meet the 
Goodberrys and Kiss of the Lamia. The former is a com­
ical glimpse into the travails of a large halfling family 
engaged in illicit criminal activity. The latter is a tragic 
play about an evil Mulhorandi prince who is banished to 
a desert, charmed by a lamia, and sent back with power­
ful magic items to conquer his homeland in her name. 
Jn the early hours of the morning, the backstage area 
is abuzz with halfling actors donning costumes. wigs, 
and makeup in preparat ion for the afternoon's show. 
As that show wraps, the cast and musicians for the 
evening's tragic fare arrive. The actor who plays the 
evil prince is a woman named Yaliek lltizmar (N female 
Rashemi bard ; see appendix B), who is also a member 
of the Harpe rs. She pays close attention to characters 
who nose around backstage. then shares any interesting 
revelations with Remallia Haventree (see appendix B) at 
the earliest opportunity. If Remallia learns the location 
of the Vault of Dragons, she sees that the information 
reaches the Lords of Waterdeep by conveying it to Mirt. 