THEATER OWNER 
The owner of the Pink Flumph, Iokaste Daliano (N 
female Tethyrian common er), is a selfish, middle-aged 
widow with no great love of theater. The Pink Flu mph 
was her husband's passion; for Iokaste, it's st rictly a 
means through which she can rub shoulders with the 
city's elite. She requires the director s to choose plays 
and hire actors, while s he spends her time "on the job" 
greeting important gues ts and promising them the fin­
est entertainm ent. She treats her actors and staff like 
half-forgotten children, and she turns away characters 
who come to the theater see king the Vault of Dragons 
unless there's som ething in it for her. Appealing to her 
greed backfires, since Iokaste wants all the treasur e 
for herself. 
PATH TO THE VAULT 
One of the dressing rooms (area P8) contains a secret 
trapdoor in the floor that no one knows about. It can be 
found with a succ essf ul DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. This stone door has an arcane Jock spell cast 
on it and can be pulled open with a successful DC 30 
Strength (Athletics) check. A knock spell or similar 
magic also does the trick. 
Below the trapdoor is a 30-foot-deep shaft containing 
a wooden ladder. Characters who descend the ladder 
find themse lves at one end of a 20-foot-wide stone pas­
sageway that gradually slopes down 100 feet before end­
ing at the entran ce to the Vault of Dragons. 
WISHES THE FAERIE DRAGON 
lokaste's late husband , Algondar Daliano, had a violet 
faerie dragon companio n named Wishes. The faerie 
dragon detests Iokaste but remains on the payroll, 
begrudgingly using its magic to enhance performances 
for the sake of preserving Algondar's legacy. It prefers to 
remain invisible and unseen otherwise. lokaste refers to 
it derisively as ~the flying serpent." 
If the characters threaten it or endanger the theater, 
Wishes uses its magic to confound and neutralize them. 
As they make their way to the Vault of Dragons, it fol­
lows them invisibly. Once it learns about the gold in the 
vault, the faerie dragon casts mirror image on itself, 
turns visible, and addresses the cha racters telepathi­
cally. It demands a share of the hoard (at least 5,000 
gp), threatens to tip off the City Watch if the characters 
refuse, and makes good on its threat if the characters 
don't share the wea lth. The faerie dragon doesn't have 
a hoard of its own, since it gives its earnings to unfor­
tunate Waterdavians by invisibly flying aroun d the city 
at night and leaving coins on doorsteps, window sills, 
nightstan ds, and pillows. 
THEATER: AUTUMN ----
At the end of their previous encounter, the characters 
are no closer to finding the Stone ofGo/orr.Jarlaxle 
is waiting for them at the Seven Masks Theater in the 
Dock Ward. The theater caters to a lower-class clientele, 
and ship capta ins and sailors are admitted for free. The 
owner of the theater is a burly and jovial Shou man with 
a braided goatee named Rongquan Mystere-another of 
Jarlaxl e's many disguises. Whenjarlaxl e is away, he en­
trust s his stage manager s to look after things. 
SAPPHIRIA
1
S BOOTY 
When the characters first arrive, all doors except the 
ones leading backstage are locked. Characters who slip 
in through rhe back see actors and stage hands bustling 
about and the directo r arguing with the playwright while 
the stage manager looks on helplessly. On the stage, 
actors walk through their scenes and read their lines 
to a most ly empty theater. Watching the rehearsal from 
the front row while smoking a pipe is jarlaxle Baenre 
(see appendix B), disguised as Rongquan. Hidden in the 
shadows in various s pots are four drow elite warrior s 
ready to fight by Jarlaxl e's side. 
The play, Sapphiria's Booty, is a romantic comedy 
about a blue-haired madam named Sapphiria who runs 
a thieves' guild out of a festhall. When a charming sea 
capta in arrives with a hold full of booty from a faraway 
land, Sapphiria decides to steal it. Zaniness ensu es 
when she falls in love with the first mate, who is half her 
age, while the captain falls in love with her. On one side 
of the stage is a backdrop resembling the deck of a ship; 
the other side is decorat ed to look like a madam 's parlor 
in a brothel, com plete with a gaudy chan delier and a 
fainting couch. 
West ra Moltimmur (CG female llluskan human com­
moner with Insight +2 and Performance +6), the play's 
leading lady, is one of Waterdeep's great treasures, and 
the cast and crew are very protective of her. Now in her 
seventies and having been married no fewer than seven 
times, she has a brisk sense of humor and a zest for life. 
She's also insightful enough to know that "Rongquan 
Mystere" isn't what he appears to be. She has seen the 
dark elves who watch over Rongquan and observed him 
using s ubtle hand gestures (Drow Sign Language) to 
communi cate with them. 
SPEAKING W ITH RONGQ.UAN 
Jarlaxl e has instru cted the stage managers to bring all 
visitors to him. In the guise of Rongquan, he claims to 
be a member of the Lords' Alliance who answers di­
rectly to Laeral Silverhand. He also seems to know all 
about the characters' meeting with Laeral (see encoun­
ter l , "Alley") and says he can speak on her behalf. He 
asks about the Stone ofGolorr and is disappointed if the 
cha racrers don't have it. If they offer up the fake stone 
recovered in encounte r 9, "Cellar Complex," Rongquan 
immediate ly realizes it's a fake. 
If the characters aren't sure what to do next, Jarlaxle 
impart s the following informati on: 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON' SEASON 