"My friends, don't be discouraged. The wind is blowing 
in our direction! I've learned that Fenerus Stormcastle 
was arrested by the City Watch for theft and taken to a 
courthouse in the Castle Ward to face the judgment of 
a mag1ster. No doubt he hid the stone before his cap· 
ture. You must speak to him right away. You'll need to 
devise some sort of ruse to get close to Fenerus. I urge 
against violence, or you might find yourself locked up 
beside him." 
Jf the characters ask why Laeral Silverhand doesn't 
question Fenerus herself or bail him out of jail,jarlaxle 
laughs and says it would be politically unwise for the 
Open Lord to be seen negotiating with a man who has 
committed heinous crimes against the city. 
Jarlax le could speak to Fenerus himself, but he's not 
sure if the courthouse is warded against magic. He can't 
risk the exposure, so he sends the characters instead. If 
the characters refuse to work for Rongquan, he shrugs 
his broad shoulders and lets them leave unmolested, fig­
uring they'll try to talk to Fenerus anyway. 
If the characters attack him,jarlaxle smiles, whistles 
for his drow bodyguards, and has at them. If the char­
acters fall in combat. jarlaxle and his guards stabilize 
dying party members before dragging all of them to a 
snowy alley and leaving them there with their gear. Af. 
ter the drow depart. a cold wind tears through the alley 
and awakens the unconscious characters. 
NEXT E N COUNTE R 
If the characters decide to speak with Fenerus. proceed 
with encounter 8, "Courthouse." 
THEATER: WIN TER 
As this encounter opens, the characters follow a flee­
ing Zhent swashbuckler into a theater in the Trades 
Ward called the Brizzenbright. Named after Malkolm 
Brizzenbrighl. its dead owner, the establishment has 
struggled in recent years. It stays open in the winter for 
its own survival, but the theater is wicked ly cold this 
time of year. 
BRI ZZEN BRI GHT'S G HOST 
Malkolm Brizzenbright, a ghost, greets all visitors in the 
lobby(area Pl). Dressed in a suit, his hair unkempt, he 
floats in plain sight most of the time, waving his hands 
about in gestures of greeting and salutation. Locals are 
accustomed to his spectral form and his stock introduc­
tion: "Let not this harried visage diminish you, gentle­
sirs and beautiful ladies. for I am but your friendly host. 
What fine art have we wrought for you this day? Buy 
your tickets and behold! You shan't be disappointed!" 
The ghost can engage in light conversation. It is 
bound to the theater because Malkolm Brizzenbright's 
soul couldn't bear to leave the place. If the theater were 
to close down, the ghost would haunt it still, perhaps 
becoming more deranged over time. Only razing or 
burning the theater to the ground can force his spirit to 
depart forever. 
C H A PTER 4 I DRAGO N SEASON 
SNAKES IN THE HOUSE 
After a harrowing rooftop chase, Yevette Blackwater 
(CE female Tethyrian human swashbuckler ; see appen­
dix B) has bought a ticket and slipped into the theater 
during a performance of Blood Wedding-a play about 
love, jealousy, and death. In the story, a young woman 
is brought to a castle by a count, only to fall in love with 
his younger brother, a man of faith. Her betrayaJ eats 
away at the jealous count. He murders his brother on 
his wedding day and pursues the bride, who hurls her­
self off the castle battlements in despair. The count is 
cursed by the gods and transformed into a creature of 
darkness, damned to live in his castle and feed on blood. 
A female cellist and two male violinists provide musical 
accompaniment. 
The shivering audience includes thirty commoner s. 
Also present is a Zhentarim spy named Agorn Fuoco 
(NE male Turami bard; see appendix B) and his com­
panion, Amath Sercent (LE female Mu Ian priest of 
Bane). Agorn is swept up in the drama and fighting back 
tears while Amath pats his arm gently. Yevette takes a 
seat behind them and surreptitiously passes the Stone 
ofGo/orr to Agorn. Looking on from the back row is 
Remallia Haventree (see appendix B), a member of the 
Harpers who suspects Agorn of being a high-ranking 
Zbent. She has been watching him for a while now, hop­
ing to identify other Zhentarim leaders in Waterdeep. Al­
though Remallia appears to be alone, the two violinists 
(LG male llluskan human spies with Performance +5) 
are Harpers under her command. Agorn and Amath are 
unaware that they're under surveillance. 
E NTER T H E H EROES 
The characters are expected to buy tickets before en­
tering the main theater. The house manager chases 
after them if they don't, threatening to summon the 
City Watch. 
A character who makes a successful DC 14 Wisdom 
(Perception) check spots Vevette in the darkened the­
ater. When this happens, Yevette springs from her chair 
and flees out the nearest door, planning to lead the 
characters on another merry chase. Remallia and her 
fellow Harpers watch with interest but don't get involved 
unless their lives or the lives of innocents are imperiled. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If the characters take the bait, proceed with encounter 
3, ''Street Chase." Once Yevette's pursuers are out of 
sight, Agorn Fuoco and A math Sercent use the distrac­
tion to slip away, exiting through the main doors and 
flagging down a hire-coach. 
ENCOUNTER 7: OLD TOWER 
The characters face enemies in a dilapidated tower bu.ilt 
by some half-forgotten Waterdavian mage hundreds of 
years ago. It has the following features: 
All doors are unlocked except the one to area 05. 
• The rooms have 15-foot-high ceilings, with 7-foot-high 
doorways connecting them. 
• The tower is brightly lit by continual flame spells cast 
on wall sconces. 