MANSHOON 
A clone of the wizard Manshoon, one of the founders of 
the Zhentarim , is hiding in Waterdeep . He wants to rule 
the city, by claiming the cac he of dragons and by using 
that wealth to bribe the Masked Lords into making him 
the new Open Lord. He also wants to regain control of 
the Black Network. Manshoon lurks in Kolat Towers, a 
pair of wizards' towers in the Trades Ward. This resi­
dence is described in chapter 8. 
Manshoon creates copies of himself using the simula­
crum spell and takes great pains to conceal his identity, 
since his success hinges on not attracting the attention 
of others who would seek to thwart him before his plans 
come to fruition. Manshoon avoids unnecessary con­
frontations with adventurers; only those who enter his 
extradimensional sanctum are likely to incur his wrath. 
If you choose Manshoon as the villain, the adventure 
takes place in the winter. 
SEASONS 
The adventure unfolds in a particular season depending 
on the villain you choose at the outset. If you switch to a 
new villain midway through the adventure, don't change 
the season to match unless the characters take enough 
downtime for seasons to change naturally. 
SPRING ----------------- -----
In Waterdeep , early spring tends to be cold and damp. 
Misty rain falls for days on end. It's common for fog to 
settle at night and last through the day. As the weather 
improves, the city attracts more visitors, and the streets 
become increasingly crowded as summer approaches. 
SUMMER 
Summers in Waterdeep are quite comfortable, and it's a 
great time for citizens and visitors to congregate outside. 
The markets are busier than at any other time of year. 
Sometimes, though, warm air pushes up from the south 
and settles in the valleys north and east of the city. This 
air gets trapped , creating a hot spell that might last days 
or weeks. Activity in the city slows to a craw l, since Wa­
terdavians are unaccustomed to such beat. 
AUTUMN 
Throughout autumn, wagonloads of food arrive in Wa­
terdeep from outlying farms. Without this bounty, city 
folk would starve during the winter. Cold, howling sea 
winds remind Waterdavians that winter is near. 
WINTER 
Waterdavian winters are harsh. As snow piles up around 
the city and ice fills the harbor, trade grinds to a bait and 
the city seals its gates. Citizens willing to brave the cold 
still gather in local taverns and festhalls, but few venture 
outside the city walls. 
FAERONIAN CALENDA R 
The FaerOnian calendar has twelve months that roughly 
correspond to the months of the Gregorian calendar. Each 
month has thirty days divided into three ten-day weeks 
(each week is called a tenday). Scattered throughout the 
year are five holidays that aren't considered part of any 
month. Once every four years, the holiday of Shield meet is 
added to the calendar as a leap day immediately following 
Midsummer night. Collectively, these days create a cycle 
similar to what we have on Earth: three 365-day years fol­
lowed by a leap year. 
Month s. The FaerOnian months are Hammer, Alturiak, 
Ches, Tarsakh, Mirtul, Kythorn, Flamerule, Eleasis, Eleint, 
Marpenoth, Uktar, and Nightal. 
Annual Holidays. The annual holidays are Midwinter 
(between Hammer and Alturiak), Greengrass (between 
Tarsakh and Mirtul), Midsummer (between Flamerule and 
Eleas is), Highharvestide (between Eleint and Marpenoth), 
and the Feast of the Moon (between Uktar and Nightal). 
RUNNING THE ADVENTURE 
To run this adventure, you need the D&D fifth edition 
core rulebooks: Player's Handbook, Dungeon Master's 
Guide, and Monster Manual. The Sword Coast Adven­
turer's Guide is helpful, but not necessary . 
Text that appears in a box like this is meant to be read 
aloud or paraphrased for the players when their charac­
ters first arrive at a location or under a specific circum· 
stance, as described in the text. 
The Monster Manual contains stat blocks for most of 
the creatures found in this adventure . AJI the necessary 
stat blocks are included there or in appendix B. When a 
creature's name appears in bold type, that's a visual cue 
for you to look up the creature's stat block in the Mon­
ster Manual, unless the adventure's text instead refers 
you to the monster appendix in this book. 
Spells and equipment mentioned in the adventure are 
described in the Player's Handbook . Magic items are 
described in the Dungeon Master's Guide, unless the 
adventure 's text directs you to an item's desc ription in 
appendix A. 
ABBREVIATIONS 
The following abbrev iations appea r in this book: 
hp= hit points 
AC = Armor Class 
DC - Difficulty Class 
XP =experie nce points 
pp - platinum piece(s) 
gp =gold piece(s) 
ep = electrum piece(s) 
sp =silver piece(s) 
cp =copper piece(s) 
N PC= non player character 
LG = lawful good 
CG = chaotic good 
NG =neutral good 
LN = lawful neutral 
N - neutral 
CN =chaotic neutral 
LE ~ lawful evil 
CE = chaotic evil 
NE= neutral evil 
DM =Dungeon Master 
INTRODUCTION 