Main Level 
MAP 4 .6 , COURTHOUSE 
teleportation circle in area 05. If the characters had 
the opportunity and the foresight to destroy the circle 
prior to obtaining the stone, the simulacrum instead 
must travel to Yellowspire on foot, giving the characters 
ample time to get away before it arrives as long as they 
leave within 1 hour after obtaining the stone. The sim­
ulacr um tirelessly pursues the stone, and characters 
who flee would do themselves well not to leave tracks 
in the sno w. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If a character becomes attuned to the Stone ofGolorr, 
it reveals the location of the Vault of Dragons. under the 
Brandath family mausoleum in the City of the Dead, and 
the three keys needed to enter it. When the characters 
are ready to visit the mausoleum, proceed with encoun­
ter 4, "Mausoleum." 
ENCOUNTER 8: 
COURTHOUSE 
People who are arrested by the City Watch are brought 
to a courthouse and detained until a magister can pass 
judgment on them. Each courthouse has the follow­
ing features: 
• Two gua rds stand outside each of the front and back 
doors (leading to areas Hl and H6) at all hours. 
Rooms have 10-foot-high ceilings, with 8-foot-high 
passages and 7-foot-high doorways connecting them. 
<:H AP'rF.R •I I DRAGON SEASON 
1 square = 5 feet 
• Windows are fitted with iron bars that require a suc­
cessful DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check to bend. 
• Doors are made of iron-bound oak and unlocked. 
• All areas are brightly lit by continual flame spells cast 
on wall sconces. 
• Cisterns on the roof collect rainwater, which is fun­
neled by pipes down to the showers (area H7). 
AREAS OF T H E COURTHOUSE 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.6. 
HI. UPSTAIRS WAITING ROOM 
This room has the following features: 
• Two guard s stand outside the doors to the records 
rooms (area H2) at all hours. Behind a desk sits a 
court clerk (common er). 
• Uncomfortable wood benches line the walls. A 
copper plaque mounted above each bench says, in 
Common, "Please have a seat. Someone will be with 
you shortly ." 
Two privies are situated in a corner by the entrance. 
Clerk. The clerk asks visitors what their business is 
and either directs them to the appropriate area of the 
courthouse or instructs them to wait. The clerk holds a 
key to the records rooms (area H2). 
H2. RECORDS ROOMS 
The doors to these rooms are locked. Inside, shelves 
lining every available inch of wall space hold boxes of 