papers dated by month and year. These papers are re­
cords of court proceedings and depositions. 
H3. CLERKS' 0.FFICE 
Two desks pushed together in the middle of the room 
hold quills, ink, and shee ts of paper. Two court clerks 
(common ers) work here, supporting the magister 
on duty. Each clerk holds a key to the records rooms 
(area H2}. 
H4. MAGISTER
1
S OFFICE 
This grand office conta ins several plush armchairs and 
a large walnu t desk. The sea l of Waterdeep is embla­
zoned on the wood floor. 
When not overseeing a trial, a magister on duty at 
the courthouse reviews cases and holds meetings here. 
If a magister is here, so is a knight who serves as a 
bodyguard. 
HS. COUR TROOM 
This room has the following features: 
• Two guards are stationed here at all times. 
• If court is in session, the magister is here along with a 
bodyguard (see area H4) and anyone else pertinent to 
the case being tried. 
• A magister's cloth-dra ped desk faces a defendant's box 
and three rows of pews. 
• Hanging on the west wall are tasseled banners de­
picting the coats of arms of the City of Waterdeep, the 
Waterdeep City Watch, and the Waterdeep City Guard, 
as well as the seal of the Lords of Waterdeep and the 
symbo l of Tyr, god of justice. 
H6. DOWN STAIRS WAITIN G ROOM 
Nobles scheduled to testify in court and those waitin g 
to visit prisoners are held here. The room contains the 
following features: 
• Two guards are on duty in this room at all times. 
• Mismatched couches line the walls. 
• Old broadsheets rest in loose piles atop end tables. 
H7. SHOWERS 
Dirty prisoners are strip ped of their clothing and 
washed here before they are locked in cells. Protruding 
from the walls are iron nozzles that spew cold water 
when a chain next to the door is pulled. Drains in the 
stone-ti led floor keep the room from flooding. 
H8. CELL BLOCK 
Two guard s are statio ned in this hall at all times. 
Locked Cells. Five cells are spaced along this hall. 
The door to each cell is locked from the outs ide, and the 
guard s stationed here hold the keys. A door's lock can't 
be picked from inside the cell. 
H9. WATCH WAGON 
This room contains the following features: 
• Two veteran s, membe rs of the City Watch, are here at 
au times. 
• An armored carriage stands behind a pair of steel 
doors secured by an iron bar. 
Armored Carriag e. Two horses are needed to pull the 
carriag e, which can hold up to eight Medium prisoners 
at a time. The back door to the carriage is secured with 
chains and two padlocks. Each veteran on duty has a 
key that opens one of the padlocks. 
Barr ed Outer Doors. It takes two people to lift the 
bar that obstructs the doors to the outs ide. A successful 
DC 21 Strength (Athletics) check enables one person to 
do it alone. 
COURTHOUSE: SUMMER 
After obtaining the Stone ofGolorr, the characters are 
arrested by the City Watch soon after they eme rge from 
the sewers. 
UN DER ARREST 
The arresting force consists of twelve veterans , a Watch 
sergeant and eleven constables . They demand that the 
characters surrender their weapons and come along qui­
etly. For guidance on how to handle characte r arrests, 
see "Breaking the Law," page 10. 
The characters are charged with disturbing the peace, 
a minor offense that carries a fine and results in an 
edict. The charge stems from their conduct in encounter 
3, "St reet Chase." Depending on how they compo rted 
themselv es in previous encounters, the cha racters might 
be charged with additional crimes against the city or its 
citizens, possibly including brandishing weapons with­
out due cause, robbery, assaulting a citizen, or murder. 
If they resist arrest, they are charged with hampering 
justice. See the Code Legal handout in appendix C for 
the penalti es assoc iated with such crimes . 
Characters who give up their visible weapons without 
a fuss aren't sea rched, but those who give the Watch 
a hard time are sea rched for hidden weapons (and 
stri pped of anything that could potentia lly cause harm). 
A charac ter can conceal a Tiny object from the Watch 
with a successful DC 12 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand ) 
check. If the Stone ofGolorr is found during a search, 
the Watch sergeant inspects it, concludes that it's noth· 
ing of consequ ence, and return s it to its owner. 
DOCK WARD COURTHOUSE 
Arrested charac ters are brought to a courthouse in the 
Dock Ward and confined to cells (area H8) until their 
trial. Any items taken from them during their arrest are 
entrust ed to the front desk clerk (area Hl) pending the 
trial's outcome. A character can take a short rest while 
incarcerat ed and use that time to attune to the Stone 
ofGolo rr. After ld6 hours, word comes down that the 
magister is prepared to hear the characters' testimony, 
whereupon the guards in area H8 unlock the characters' 
cells and escort them to the courtroom (area HS), where 
the magister is waiting. 
FALSE CAPTAIN 
If Lord Cassa lanter's dopp elgaoger valet is still at large, 
it kills a Watch captai n and uses the victim's uniform 
to impersonate anot her Watch captain the characters 
have met before. Then, in the guise of Hyustus Staget 
(see "The Watch Arrives," page 27), the doppelganger 
kills the guards in area H8 with its bare hands and 
C HAPTER+ I DRAGON SEASON 