B3. SECRET D OORS 
Secret doors blend with the surround ing stonework on 
opposite sides of this sewer tunnel. One door opens into 
area B7, the other into area BIO. Characters who have 
a passive Perception score of 15 or higher spot both 
secret doors as they pass by. Otherwise, finding a secret 
door requires a search of the wall and a successful DC 
15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The secret doors are set 
high enough that opening them doesn't cause sewage to 
flow into adjoining areas. 
B4. RUS T Y IRON D OOR 
A door made of rusted iron is set into the wall above a 
dry, I-foot-wide stone ledge. The door 's lock corroded 
long ago, and the door squeals loudly on rusty hinges 
when opened. 
B5. ARROW S LITS 
A brick wall with arrow slits was added to this room at 
some point. The arrow slits are designed to allow ar­
chers to fire at intruders who come through the door at 
area B4. The arrow slits provide three-quarters cover. 
B6. STORAGE R OOM 
An unlocked wooden door closes off this empty room. 
B7. R UB BLE-FILLED CELLAR 
A wa ll has collapsed, creating a larger space out of two 
smaller rooms. The air is heavy with dust, and the floor 
is strewn with rubble, refuse, and rat droppings . 
Secret Door. The secret door to area B3 is eas ily 
spotted from this side (no check required). 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
1 square = 5 feet 
B8. SUNKEN CELL AR 
This sunken cellar has these features: 
• An unlocked iron door is set into the east wall. 
• A crumbling stone sta ircase against the south wall 
climbs up to a landing, where a wooden door is held 
shut with a chain and a padlock. 
Iron Door. The door opens into a small, empty stor­
age room with hooks hanging from the ceiling. 
S tairs Up. The lock can be picked with a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity check made using thieves' tools, or 
the door can be forced open with a successfu l DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check. It opens into an alley behind 
a boarded-up tenement. 
B9. RAT- I NFESTED CELLAR 
These rooms are situated below a hostel (75 percent 
chance) or an orphanage (25 percent chance). Harmless 
rats crawl about, minding their own business. 
B9a. Stone stairs climb 10 feet to a wooden door that 
opens into a street or alley. Crates and barrels stacked at 
the bottom of the stairs hold edible foodstuffs, but noth­
ing else of value. 
B9b. A plain wooden door opens into a room conta in­
ing dusty furnish ings in storage. The furniture includes 
a scratched wooden desk, severa l wobbly chairs, a coat 
rack, two small tables, and an empty wooden trunk. 
There's a 25 percent chance that one piece of furniture 
(determ ined random ly) is a mimi c that usually feeds on 
rats but never passes up a bigger meal. 