BIO. OLD TAVERN CELLAR 
This spacious, empty cellar has the following features: 
• Stone pillars and arches suppo rt the ceiling. 
• Mismatched stonework on either side of a half-demol­
ished wall indicates that this area was once two sepa­
rate chambers. 
Stone stairs climb to a bricked-up doorway. (The door 
once led to an alley behind an old tavern.) 
Secret Door. The secret door to area B3 is easily 
spotted from this side (no check required). 
Bll. BACK CELLARS 
These rooms are extensions of area BlO. 
Blla. This room used to be a wine cellar. Its walls are 
lined with piles of rotting wood (storage racks) and bro­
ken bottles. 
Bllb. Once a cold storage room and root cellar, this 
empty chamber is choked with dust and cobwebs. 
CELLAR COMPLEX : SPRING ---
The chara cters have learned that a haltling necroman­
cer named Losser MirkJav took the Stone ofGo/orr. He 
lives in a cellar complex under a powdered wig shop 
in the Trades Ward. The shop, Dandymops, is closed 
and locked with an iron gate. The lock can be picked by 
a character who makes a successfu l DC 15 Dexterity 
check using thieves' tools, or the gate can be forced 
open with a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) 
check. Since the shop is in a highly visible location, an 
attempt to break into it is 75 percent likely to be noticed 
by someone who alerts the City Watch. Two veteran s of 
the City Watch arrive in ldlO minutes to investigate the 
shop and talk to witnesses. 
Xanathar's gazer (see appendix B) doesn't follow 
characters into the shop. It remains outside and waits 
for Xanathar Guild forces to arrive. If the characters 
destroyed the gazer in an earl ier encounter, another one 
arrives with the Xanathar Guild forces. 
DUNGEON ENTRANCE 
Area 81 is the basement of the wig shop and the charac­
ters' point of entry into the cellar complex. 
MISTY SEWERS 
The dense fog from outside settles in the sewers, and 
areas 82, B3, and 84 are lightly obscured . 
NECROMANCER 
Losser Mirklav is a lightfoot halfiing mage , with 
these changes: 
• He is chaotic evil and has 31 (9d6) hit points. 
• He has these racial traits: He is Small, and his walk­
ing speed is 25 feet. He can move throug h the space 
of a Medium or larger creat ure. He has advantage on 
saving throws against being frightened. He speaks 
Common and Haltling. 
• He has the animate dead and blight spells prepared, 
instead of counterspell and greater invisibility. All his 
spe ll slots are current ly expended. 
Losser carries a spe llbook bound in stitched flesh that 
contain s all his prepared spells. He also has a key to 
the padlocked door in area BB and 4dl0 gp in a pouch 
made of elf skin and cinched with a rope made of woven 
dwarf hair. 
Losser has made several changes to the complex: 
• Area B6 contains three beds-two sized for Losser's 
human apprentices and a smaller bed sized for him. 
• Area 810 contains twelve skeletons that attack any­
one other than Losser and his apprentices. 
• Area Bl l contains piles of human bones stolen from 
the City of the Dead. Losser hasn't gotten around to 
animating them yet. 
WHERE'S THE STONE? 
Before the characters reach Losser, kenku members of 
the Xanathar Guild break down the door leading into 
the cellar complex via area BB and confront the necro­
mance r. The characters find Losser cowering in one 
corner of area 87. Two skeletons stand between him 
and three kenku . The kenku aim to kill the halfling. 
Lying on the floor around them are four dead kenku and 
the remains of two destroyed (and previously animated) 
skeletons. 
If the cha racters demand the Stone ofGo/orr, Losser 
tells them the truth: he surrendered it to the keoku, two 
of which fled south with it. In area BB. the characters 
see one kenku standing over the bodies ofLosser's 
murdered human apprentices, Retchyo and Kreela. This 
kenku is joined by Xanathar's gazer (see appendix 8). 
The kenku and the gazer try to hold off the characters 
for as long as possible, buying time for a second kenku 
to flee with the Stone ofGolorr. 
If the characters pursue the stone and leave Losser 
alive, he eventually slips away and retreats to area 811. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Once the characters defeat Xanathar's forces in the cel­
lar, they can chase after the fleeing kenku that has the 
Stone ofGo/orr in its clutches. Proceed with encounter 
3, "Street Chase." 
CELLAR COMPLEX : SUMMER 
The characters are hot on the trail of three street ur­
chins as the children scamper into the sewers under the 
Dock Ward. 
SICKENING SMELL 
The summer heat makes the sewer smell worse than 
usual, and characters become poisoned by the stench 
unless they cover their noses with perfumed scarves. 
The effect lasts until they leave the sewers. The street 
urchins and other creatures that live in the sewers are 
accustomed to the smell and aren't poisoned in this way. 
SEARCH FOR THE URCHINS 
The characters approach the cellar complex from the 
east, eventually coming upon an iron door in the side of 
the sewer tunnel (area B4). 
The street urchins took the Stone ofGolorr to area 
87 {which serves as their clubhouse). entering the room 
through a secret door (area 83). The eldest child. Nat, 
attuned to the stone, but contact with the aboleth so ter­
rified her that she dropped it, screamed, and ran away. 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON S.l!ASON 