a week in the winter, and painting supplies every few 
monchs. Vhaspar has a key that unlocks the outer doors 
of Kalain's residence. 
Displayed in every room except area WS is one of Ka­
Iain's paintings. To determine the subject of any given 
painting, roll a dl2 and consult the Painting Subjects 
table. It's possible for a subject to appear more than 
once. The res idence is also crawling with rats . If Ka lain 
is attacked, these vermin form six swarms ofrats that 
defend her. 
PAINTING SUBJE CTS 
d12 Subject d12 Subject 
Ankheg 7 Gibbering mouther 
2 Carrion crawler 8 Hell hound 
3 Displacer beast 9 Manticore 
4 Ettercap 10 Minotaur 
5 Gargoyle 11 Mummy 
6 Ghast 12 Werewolf 
KALA IN 
Ka lain spends most of her time in area WS, which 
serves as her studio. It contains moldy scraps of food, 
empty pots stained with colored paint, discarded 
brushes, and her easel, which is situated in front of a 
large, lead-paned window in the north wait. Upon the 
ease l rests a fresh painting of a displacer beast. If the 
characters confront her, Kala in accuses them of being 
assassins, brings the displacer beast to life, and com­
mands it to attack them. 
Ka lain is a half-elf bard (see appendix B), with 
these changes: 
• She is chaotic evil. 
She has these racial traits: She has advantage on sav­
ing throws against being charmed, and magic can't 
put her to sleep. She has darkvision out to a range of 
60 feet. She speaks Common and Elvish. 
Instead of the Song of Rest trait, she has the Art Imi­
tates Life action option. 
Art Imitates Life (3/Day). Kala in touches one of her paintings 
and causes its subject to spring forth, becoming a creature of 
that kind provided its CR is 3 or lower. The creature appears in 
an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the painting, which be· 
comes blank. The creature is friendly toward Kalain and hostile 
toward all others. It rolls initiative to determine when it acts . It 
disappears after 1 minute, when it is reduced to 0 hit points, or 
when Kalain dies or falls unconscious. 
PATH TO THE VAULT 
A heavy stone trapdoor in the floor of area W4a can be 
found with a thorough search of the room and a success­
ful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check. Pulling open the 
door reveals a stone staircase that descends 120 feet to 
a 20-foot-wide corridor, which extends for another 60 
feet and ends before the doors to the Vault of Dragons. 
Kalain and Vhaspar know nothing of the vault or the 
trapdoor that leads to it. 
CONVERTED WINDMILL: WINTER 
An evil dragonboro named Thrakkus has converted 
an old, fire-scorched windmill in the Field Ward into 
a butcher's shop. A member of the Guild of Butchers, 
Thrakkus has a lucrative side business. Zhents loyal to 
Manshoon pay Thrakkus to chop up people they kill, 
and he sells the meat on the sly. As Deadwinter Day ap­
proaches, this meat is in high demand. The corpses are 
brought to him in the dead of night, most often delivered 
by Sidra Romeir (see chapter 8, area K2) in a covered 
cart pulled by a draft horse. 
BUTCHERY 
A red wooden sign carved to look like a butcher 's cleaver 
hangs above the door of Thrakkus's butchery, which 
occupies the westernmost room of the west wing. The 
butchery is ice cold in the winter and reeks of meat and 
blood. A bloodstained chopping block dominates the 
room, and shelves of cut meat wrapped in bloody parch­
ment line the walls. The floor is streaked with blood and 
covered with bits of gore. 
Thrakkus padlocks the door at night. Picking the 
lock requires a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools. The door can also be forced open with a 
successful DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check. 
LARDER 
The chamber next to the butchery has been converted 
into a larder, the doors to which are padlocked at all 
hours. The locked doors are otherwise identical to the 
butchery door (see above). Like the butchery, the larder 
is frigid in the winter and smells of meat and blood. Six 
half-frozen humanoid carcasses are stacked under a 
10-foot-square canvas tarpaulin near the western wall. 
Thrakkus hasn 't gotten around to cutting them up yet. 
SQ.UATTERS 
The dragonborn allows squatters to dwell in his home. 
Those who can perform menial chores are spared and 
fed scraps of cooked meat; the rest end up on the chop­
ping block. These homeless sods are too frightened of 
Thrakkus to speak ill of him, and the City Watch doesn't 
seem to care about crimes committed in the Field Ward. 
THRAKKUSTHEBUTCHER 
The butcher bas no time to suffer fools, and the charac­
ters are fools for meddling in his business. Thrakkus 
spends most of the day in the butchery. At dusk, he re­
tires to his apartment, where he stays until dawn or un­
til someone comes knocking with a body to dispose of. 
Thrakkus carries keys to the butchery, the larder, and 
his apartment (area W7). 
Thrakkus is a dragonb orn berserker of red dragon 
ancestry, with these changes: 
• He is chaotic evil. 
• He has these racial traits: He can use his action to 
exhale a 15-foot cone of fire (but can't do this again 
until he finishes a short or long rest); each creature in 
the cone must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, 
taking 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as 
much damage on a successful one. He has resistance 
to fire damage. He speaks Common and Draconic. 
CllAY r ER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 