WHERE'S THE STONE? 
Thrakkus hid the Stone ofGolorr in a recent meat de­
livery to an alley in the Trades Ward. Thrakkus doesn't 
keep records of his illegal transactions, so the charac­
ters must interrogate him or one of the commoners that 
dwell in his residence. 
Thrakkus is belligerent and not eager to give up his 
Zbent friends. A charm person spe ll or similar magic 
is needed to compel him to talk. His squatters are an­
other matter; they roll over on Thrakkus quickly to save 
their own skins once the dragonborn butcher no longer 
becomes a factor in their well-being. Either approach 
yields the following information: 
Thrakkus's last shipment of meat was taken to a shop 
in the Trades Ward called Cuttle's Meat Pies. lt's lo­
cated in an alley. 
The meat was delivered by a member of the Guild of 
Butchers namedjustyo Rassk. Thrakkus paid extra 
coin to see it delivered "quick ly and quietly." 
• Rassk has a blood-spattered horse-drawn cart that be 
uses to make deliveries outside the Field Ward. 
The chara cters might know Justyn Rassk from their 
own dealings with the Gui Id of Butchers (see "Sample 
Gui ld Representatives," page 41). 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
[f the cha racte rs folJow the trail of the meat delivery, 
proceed with encounter 1, "Alley." 
VAULT KEYS 
At the end of an encounter chain, a character who is 
attuned to the Stone of Golorr can learn the location of 
the Vault of Dragons and what three keys are needed 
to open its doors. The artifact also reveals that an adu lt 
gold dragon named Aurinax guards the vault. 
The three keys needed to open the vault are chosen by 
you or determined randomly by rolling on the Vault Keys 
table. Illusory versions of keys don't open the door. 
Every key can be found or procured in Waterdeep. If 
the characters don't already know the location of a key, 
they can gathe r information about it. To do this, a char­
acter must spend 1 day and 5 gp researching the loca­
tion of a key. At the end of this day, the character makes 
a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check, learning the 
location of the key on a success. If the check fails by 5 
or more, the main villain learns of the search and sends 
lackeys to attack the characters and. if possible, wrest 
the Stone of Golorr from them: 
Xanathar sends either five goblins dressed up as 
children wearing Trolltide masks and a bugbear (70 
percent chance). or four wererats in human form (30 
percent chance). 
• The Cassa lanters send two imps in raven form, three 
human cu ltists, and eithe r a human cult fanatic 
(70 percent chance), or four spined devils (30 per­
cent chance). 
• jarlaxle Baenre sends Fel'rekt Lafeen and Krebbyg 
Masq'il'yr, or two other Bregan D'aerthe drow gun ­
slingers (see appendix B), and six drow. 
• Manshoon sends four Zhent martial arts adepts (see 
appendix B). There's a 50 percent chance that these 
Zhents are led by one of Manshoon's lieutenants, ei­
ther Yevette Blackwater or Agoro Fuoco, if they're still 
alive (see chapter 8, area £8). 
KEY DE SCR IPTIO NS 
The keys listed in the Vault Keys table are further de­
scribed below, in alphabetical order. 
ADAMANTINE B AR 
The characters can purchase a 10-pound adamantine 
bar for 1,000 gp. The genasi smiths Embric and Avi (see 
chapter 2, area T3) can acquire one if the characters 
think to ask them. 
ANIMATED CONSTRUCT 
Any creature of the construct type works as this key, 
provided the creature hasn't been destroyed or rendered 
inoperable. If the characters have befriended Valetta, 
the dragon born priest of Gond (see chapter 3), she hap­
pily releases Nim the nimblewright into their custody 
until they no longer have need of it. 
An object animated by the animate objects spe ll also 
qualifies as this key. 
B EARDLESS DWARF 
Most female dwarves are beardless and thus meet the 
condition. A male dwarfNPC can be persuaded to shave 
his beard, either as a consequence of losing a bet or 
upon receiving some sort of recompense. The charac­
ters can also shave a male dwarf they have captured or 
against whom they have some sort of leverage. 
BEHOLDER EYESTALK 
The eyesta lk need not come from a true, living beholder. 
fl can be plucked from a stuffed beholder (see "Old Xob­
lob Shop ," page 23) or obtained from a lesser form of 
beholderkin, such as a gazer or a spectator. The eyestalk 
also need not be detached. 
VAULT KEYS {ROLL THREE TIMES, ONCE FOR EACH KEY) 
d6 First Key Second Key 
l 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Adamantine bar 
Beholder eyestalk 
Drunken elf 
Invisible creature 
Performance of "Your Beardy Face" 
Silvered warhammer 
CHAPTER 4- I DRAGON SEASON 
Animated construct 
Bronze dragon scale 
Gems worth at least l ,000 gp 
Painting of a dwarf miner 
Severed drow hand 
Sunlight 
Third Key 
Beardless dwarf 
Cask of dwarven ale 
Gift from a queen 
Pair of bugbear ears 
Shapechange r 
Unicorn 