Xanathar (see appendix B) gladly accompanies char­
acters to the vault if that's the way to guarantee getting 
its share of the treasure. Regardless of the arrangement 
it makes with the characters , "its share" equates to all 
the treasure. In other words, Xanathar turns on the 
party once the vault is unlocked, unless a powerful NPC 
(such as Laeral Silverhand or Vajra Safah r) is present to 
keep the mad beholder in check. 
BRONZE D RAGON SCA LE 
Zelifarn, a young bronze dragon , has taken up res­
idence in Deepwater Harbor. Many sailors and dock 
workers have seen the dragon, and Grinda Garlotb (see 
"Encounter 2: Mistshore,'' page 65) owns an appa­
ratus of Kwalish that characters can use to search for 
the dragon. Characters who go looking for Zelifam find 
him lurking inside a shipwreck 120 feet underwater. 
As the characters approach the wreck, Zelifarn comes 
out and tries to scare them away. (He's not done search­
ing the wreck for treasure.) He inflicts harm only in 
self-defense. 
A successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check or 
an offer of treasure worth at least 1,000 gp convinces 
the dragon to talk with the characters and part with 
one of his scales. If the characters mention the contents 
of the Vault of Dragons, Zelifarn demands a promise 
of 10 percent of the gold before he gives them what 
they came for. 
CASK OF D WARVEN ALE 
A cask of dwarven aJe is easily obtained at any market 
in Waterdeep for 5 gp. There is a 20 percent chance that 
the characters buy a knock-off brand that isn't made by 
dwarves. Any dwarf character can tell genuine dwarven 
ale from the fake stuff simply by having a taste. 
D RUNKEN E L F 
Any elf who is poisoned from drinking alcohol qualifies 
as this key. 
GEMS W ORTH AT LEAST 1,000 GP 
One or more gemstones qualify as this key as long as 
their combined value is 1,000 gp or more . Such gems 
can be found dur ing the adventure or bought in the mar­
kets of Waterdeep. 
GIFT FROM A QUEEN 
Laeral Silverhand, the Open Lord of Waterdeep, was 
once the queen of an ancient kingdom called Storna nter. 
The characters can recall this fact with a successfu l DC 
20 Intelligence (History) check or learn it through infor­
mation gathering. They can request an audience with 
Laeral throughjalester Silvermane or Mirt. Laeral gives 
them a gift- a feather quill given to her by the archmage 
Elminster himself-if they promise to return the stolen 
gold to Waterdeep's coffers. 
INVIS IBLE CREATURE 
Any creature under the effect of an invisibility spell 
counts as this key, as do naturally invisible creatures. 
CHAPTER + I D RAGON SEASON 