1 square = 10 feet 
M AP 4 '3' VAUU Of° DRAGONS 
landing, forcing the character to succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw or fall to the floor below. 
Iron Doors. Ten of the double doors are false and re­
fuse to budge. The two sets of doors at the northern end 
of the west wall push open to revea l area V3 beyond. 
V3. STAIRS AND FRESCO 
This hall has the following features: 
• At the south end of this chambe r, expertly carved 
stairs climb 70 feet to area V4. 
The north wall bears a 20-foot-square fresco that de­
picts dwarves battling goblins. 
Enthraning Fres co. A detect magic spell reveals an 
aura of enchantment magic on the fresco. Any creature 
within 30 feet of the fresco that can see it must succeed 
on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by it 
for 24 hours. While charmed in this way, the creature 
can't willingly move out of sight of the fresco and de­
fends it to the death. If forcibly moved away from the 
fresco. the creature tries to find its way back. The crea­
ture can't rest while under this effect. After 24 hours, 
the creature gains one level of exhaustion and can re­
peat the saving throw if it can still see the fresco, ending 
the effect on a success. A creature that succeeds on the 
saving throw is immune to the effect of the fresco for 24 
hours. Destroying at least one 10-foot-square section of 
the fresco ends the effect for all creatures. Each 10-foot­
square section has AC 17, 25 hit points. and immunity to 
poison and psychic damage. 
Upper Level 
V4. HALL OF MORA DIN 
This 20-foot-high hall has the following features: 
• Three pillars running the length of the hall are carved 
to resemble warhammers, with their squa re heads 
pressed against the floor . 
• The west wall bea rs a cracked mosaic that depicts a 
dwarf sm ith at a forge, crafting dwarves out of black 
meta l and diamo nds. (In the sout h end of the wall is a 
secret door.) 
• Three archways in the east wall lead to crumbli ng 
bridges that span the entrance foyer (area V2) and 
end in front of adamantine doors (lead ing to areas V6. 
V7, and V8). 
Black Pudding . A little more than halfway down 
the hall. a section of the western mural has broken off, 
forming a heap of shattered tile on the floor. A crack in 
the wall conceals a black pudding that gushes out and 
attacks characters who inspect the damage. 
Secret Door. A character who searches the halJ for 
secret doors and succeeds on a DC 17 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check notices the outline of a secret door that leads 
to area VS. The door opens automatically when a dwarf 
(or a creature transformed into a dwarf with an alter self 
spell or similar magic) touches it; otherw ise, a success­
ful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) check is needed to push 
open the heavy door. 
C HAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEAS ON 