V5. SECRET ROOM 
This dust-filled room has lain untouched since the time 
of the Delzoun dwarves. Green copper urns on plat­
forms overflow with coins, gems, and more. 
Treasur e. This room holds five copper urns (worth 
25 gp each). Urn 1 contains five tourmalines (worth 100 
gp each) mixed in with 200 cp. Urn 2 contains a ring of 
warmth mixed in with ten ordinary gold rings (worth 
25 gp each) and 650 sp. Urn 3 is piled high with 250 
gp. Urn 4 holds 33 blue quartz gemstones (worth 10 gp 
each). Urn 5 holds a 9-inch-tall silver statuette of a dwarf 
priest ofMoradin with amethyst eyes (worth 250 gp and 
weighing 10 pounds). 
V6. HAMMER AND ANVIL 
The adamantine door to this room has an arcane Jock 
spell cast on it, but it swings open when a dwarf or a 
creature transformed into a dwarf touches it. Another 
creature can force it open with a successful DC 21 
Strength (Athletics) check. A knock spell or similar 
magic also opens it. The door swings into the room on 
stiff adamantine hinges. 
The north, east, and south walls of this 20-foot-high 
room are adorned with dust-covered frescoes depict­
ing dwarf smiths at work in their forges. 
• An iron anvil sits atop a raised stone block in the mid­
dle of the floor. Both fixtures are draped in cobwebs. 
Frescoes. A character who inspects the wall frescoes 
and succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check 
notices that the stone hammer being wielded by the 
smith in the fresco on the south wall can be taken away 
from where it rests. When removed, it leaves a ham­
mer-shaped indentation in the wall. Etched into the side 
of the hammer that was facing the wall is the following 
inscription in Dwarvish runes: "Let hearts be lifted and 
battles won." The hammer must be removed from its 
indentation for the inscription to be seen. 
Iron Anvil. If the characters clear away the cobwebs, 
they see an inscription on the front of the stone block. 
Written in Dwarvish runes , it reads as follows: "Let the 
hammer fall and the anvil ring." 
If the anvil is struck by the stone hammer that was 
taken from the wall, each creature in the room that can 
hear the anvil ring gains 10 temporary hit points that 
last for 24 hours . Once the anvil has bestowed this gift, 
it can't do so again for 24 hours. 
V7. DUMATHOIN
1
S SECRET 
This room is sealed by an adamantine door similar 
to the one in area V6. The room contains the follow­
ing features: 
• Four suits of rusted plate armor sans helmets, sized 
for a dwarf, stand in the corners of this 20-foot-high 
room. Each suit is draped in cobwebs . 
• Dwarvish runes are carved into the far wall. The in­
scription reads, "A secret never before told will part 
Dumath.oin's lips." 
A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Religion) check iden­
tifies Dumathoin as the dwarven god of secrets. Any 
dwarf character automatically knows this. 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
S ecret Stair. The engraving on the wall is a clue that 
this room holds a secret, specifically a trapdoor so well 
hidden that it can't be found by using magic or search­
ing. But when any creature in the room speaks aloud a 
secret, the trapdoor flips open, giving access to a spiral 
stone staircase that descends 120 feet to area V9. The 
spoken admission must be true, and it must be some­
thing the character has not previously revealed. 
V8. OL' FIRE EYES 
This room has the following features: 
• A 10-foot-tall painted statue of an armored male dwarf 
wielding a battleaxe and wearing a mask stands at the 
back of this 20-foot-high room. 
• Before the statue, set into the floor, is an adamantine 
trapdoor with a pull ring along one side . 
Trap. A successful DC 17 Intelligence (Religion) check 
enables a character to recognize the statue as a depic­
tion of Gorm Gulthyn, the dwarven god of vigilance also 
known as Fire Eyes. The statue melds seamlessly with 
the floor and can't be toppled. It also seems impervious 
to damage. A detect magic spell reveals an aura of evo­
cation magic on the statue. 
The trapdoor is false and can't be lifted. Anyone who 
touches the trapdoor or its pull ring must succeed on 
a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by rays of 
magical fire that spring from the statue's eyes, dealing 
22 (4d10) fire damage. The trap doesn't trigger if the tar­
get has total cover. 
V9. MAIN VAULT 
When the characters arrive here for the first time, read: 
Although deep underground, this vault is lit by streams 
of sunlig ht that pour down from the ceiling, catching 
motes of dust in their luminous pools. Ornate columns 
support a thirty.foot-high vaulted ceiling, which is 
adorned with carvings of dwarves basking in the pres­
ence of their gods. Deep alcoves line the walls, and piled 
in one of them is a vast golden trove. 
Out of the dusty gloom steps an aged dwarf clutching 
a staff carved and painted to res emble a pair of entwined 
dragons-one red, one gold. Despite the dwarrs age, his 
eyes are steady and bright. "I wasn't expecting anyone," 
he says plainly. "As you can see, the place is a mess. 
Perhaps you shou ld come back later, after I've tidied 
up a bit." 
The dwarf, who calls himself Barok Clanghammer, is 
really the adul t gold dragon Aurinax (see appendix B) 
in disguise. He guards the gold for Lord Dagult Nev­
erember and holds the dragonstaff of Ahghairon (see 
appendix A) in exchange for his services. Dealing with 
the gold dragon presents an unusual challenge for the 
characters, and a peaceful resolution is more likely to 
benefit them than a violent one. 
Aurinax is patient, wise, merciful, and vigilant. He 
remains in humanoid form until combat breaks out, 