CHAPTER 5: SPRING MADNESS 
ANATHAR HAS LET ITS PARANOIA GET THE 
better of it, and the beholder trusts no 
one. The Stone ofGolorr disappeared 
from its lair while it was brokering a 
deal that would have merged the Xana­
thar Guild and the Zhentar im into a 
single criminal organizatio n. Although the Zhents didn't 
steal the Stone ofGolorr, Xanatha r believes they did. 
Once content to mere ly possess the sto ne, the beholder 
is no longer confident of the gold's safety in the Vault of 
Dragons. Xanathar thinks that the gold would be safer 
under its watchful gaze, but without the Stone ofGolorr, 
it can't remember where the gold is hidden. 
Before running this chapter, review the "Beholders" 
section of the Monscer Manual, particularly the section 
titled "A Beholder's Lair." Within its lair, Xanathar has 
access to lair actions, and characters might encounter 
the beholder's regional effects as well. 
Characters who don't visit Xanathar's lair in the 
course of this adventure might have reason to do so in 
Wacerdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage. In that adven­
ture, the cha racters are most likely to approach the be­
holder's lair from Skullport (see area X4 for details). 
As they explore Xanathar's lair, characters will see a 
recurring symbol that looks like a circle with ten equi­
distant spokes radiating out from its circumference. 
This symbol is Xanathar's personal rune as well as the 
symbo l used to represent the Xanat har Guild. 
FACING XANATHA R 
Roll percenti le dice to determine the beholder's location 
when the characters arrive, and consu lt the Xanathar's 
Location table. 
XA N AT HAR'S LOC ATION 
dlOO Location 
01-50 Xanathar is talking to Sylgar, its pet fish, in area Xl 9. 
51-75 Xanathar is delivering a rambling sermon to min· 
ions in the audience chamber (area Xl8). 
76- 90 Xanathar is watching a fight in the Pit of Blood and 
Fortune (area X6). 
91-00 Xanathar is contemplating its mortality in the crypt, 
amid the remains of past Xanathars (area X33). 
If the characters attack the beholder. it dest roys one 
character and tries to subjugate the rest. In exchange for 
their lives, the survivors must agree to help the beholder 
find the Scone ofGolorr. If they refuse, the beholder 
destroys another character and repeats the offer. This 
process continues until the characters comply or none 
are left. Those who agree to the beholder's terms a re 
permitted to leave with their lives. 
If the characters give Xanathar the stone, it demands 
that they accompany it to the Vault of Dragons a nd 
help it defeat the vault's draconic gua rdian . Not fully 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRr NG MADNES S 