trusting the characters to keep their part of the bargain. 
Xanathar brings along its majordomo, Ahmaergo, to 
keep an eye on them. 
If Xanathar is reduc ed to half its max imum hit points, 
or if it believes its life to be in mortal danger, it activates 
its ring of invisibility and howls to Ahmaergo to "tear 
the usurpers limb from limb." While invisible, Xanathar 
flies to its sanctum (area X19) by the safest route. 
Xanathar 's greatest weakness is its insane love for its 
pet fish, Sylgar. A character who uses the fish for lever­
age can make a DC 16 Charisma (Intimidation) check . 
On a success, the fearsome beholder becomes a blub­
bering mess and acquiesces to almost any request the 
character makes . On a failure, Xanathar demands that 
the character release Sylgar at once or be disinteg rated 
(and makes good on its threat). 
FOIL ING X ANAT HA R'S 
OPER ATION 
Killing the beholder is probably beyond the characters' 
capabili ties, but they can sabotage its operation in sev­
eral ways, affecting either the beholder personally or the 
smooth funct ioning of the Xanathar Guild. They might 
even be able to marshal sufficient resources (including 
enough explosives) to bring down Xanathar's lair. 
E N RAGE XANATHAR 
Xanathar's mental state is precarious. Whenever it flies 
into a rage, the beholder tends to kill random minions. 
ABDUCT OR KILL SYLGAR 
Killing or stea ling Xanathar 's pet fish and preventing 
the fishkeeper, Ott Steeltoes, from replacing it causes 
Xanathar to become enraged. 
DESTROY THE DRE AM NULLIFIER 
Xanathar's "dream nullifier" in area X20 gives it peace 
of mind and helps it sleep. Destroying this contraption 
makes the beholder unhappy. 
TAKE ITS FOOD AWAY 
Xanathar eats meals prepared by the kobold chefs in 
area X30. Killing these kobolds or otherwise preventing 
them from preparing meals makes Xanathar furious. 
DI SRUPT COMMAND 
Even chough the beholder is the supreme leader of the 
Xanathar Guild, its lieutenants manage the guild's day­
to-day operations. The chain of command can be dis­
rupted in any of the fol lowing ways. 
ASSASSINATION 
Killing one of Xanathar's most trusted underlings , such 
as Ahmaergo or Noska Ur'gray, throws the day-to-day 
operat ion of the guild into chaos for a tenday. 
BLIND XANATHAR 
Nar'l Xibrindas (see appendix B) has concocted a poison 
that can blind Xanathar and throw the guild into chaos . 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRING MADNESS 
IMPOR TANT UNDERLINGS 
Xanathar relies on underlings for advice, information, and 
day-to-day oversight of the Xanathar Guild. The following 
important underlings are described in appendix B: 
Ahmaergo, dwarf majordomo 
Nar'I Xibrindas, drow advisor 
Nihiloor, mind flayer 
Noska Ur'gray, dwarf enforcer 
Ott Steeltoes, dwarf fishkeeper 
Thorvin Twinbeard, dwarf engineer 
Sow MISTRUST 
If the beholder is tricked into believing there's a conspir ­
acy to kill it or Sylgar, it disintegrates the suspected con­
spirators, leaving gaping holes in the chain of comma nd. 
DEST ROY THE L A I R 
Nar' I Xibrindas has smuggled smokepowder into the lair 
(see area X36) and, with Thorvin Twinbeard's help, iden­
tified areas that are structurally unstable. If these areas 
all suffer catastrophic damage, the lair collapses over 
the course of 1 hour. Characters can learn this informa ­
tion by speaking to Thorvin in area X13. The unstable 
areas are as follows: 
Area X2, in the threshold of the secret door 
Area X6, at the top of the stone buttresses 
Area Xl7, at the base of any three pillars 
Area X20, against the back wall 
Area X22, between the columns 
Area X30, anywhere in the kitchen 
Area X33, anywhere in the crypt 
As its lair collapses, Xanathar uses its Disintegration 
Ray to carve an escape tunnel and flees to safety with 
minor injuries. It uses its Telekinetic Ray to transport 
its pet fish, Sylgar, if it's within range. Underlings ca n 
flee with the beholder or through the tunn el to Skullport 
(area X4). Those who can't accomplish either of these 
things are killed in the collapse. 
XANATHAR'S LAIR 
Xanathar's lair is an ancient dungeon complex originally 
built by Netherese wizards and expanded by beholders 
over time. It connects to the subterranean town of Skull­
port by way of a long tunnel (area X4). A secret staircase 
(area Xl) gives access to Waterdeep's sewers. 
The lair has the following features , with exceptions 
noted in the text: 
• Unless noted otherwise , rooms are 20 feet high and 
hallways are 15 feet high. 
• Rooms and corridors are brightly lit by continual 
flame spe lls cast on wall sconces. 
• Most doors are single, circular slabs of stone, 8 feet in 
diameter and 6 inches thick, with stone hinges on one 
side. Double doors are 16-foot-wide, 8-foot-high semi ­
circles that split open down the middle. Doorknobs 
a re set into stone fixtures shaped like Xanathar's sym­
bol. (Xanathar can open or close an unlocked door us­
ing its Telekinetic Ray, or obliterate a locked one with 
its Disintegration Ray.) 