EMERALD ENCLAVE 
Characters who are members of the Emerald Enclave 
can learn the location of Xanathar's lair by speaking 
with]eryth Phaulkon at Phaulkonmere.Jeryth tells 
them that she has been sending awakened rats into the 
sewers to find the beholder's Lair, and that they recently 
discovered a secret staircase in the Castle Ward sewers 
leading down to it (area Xl). She has one of the awak­
ened rats lead them there. This rat has an Intelligence 
score of 10 and can speak Common. 
ZHENTARIM 
Characters who are members of the Zhentarim can 
approach Yagra Stonefist at the Yawning Portal (see 
"Familiar Faces,'' page 20). She rece ntJy learned 
about a "back door" to the beholder's lair from a 
drunk en blabbermouth with ties to the Xanathar Guild. 
Yagra offers to lead them to a secret staircase in the 
sewers under the Castle Ward (area Xl). "Trust me," she 
says, "it's safer than the route through Undermountain 
and Skullport." 
Yagra will join their descent if the characters promise 
to pay her at least 1,000 gp. Otherwise, she wishes them 
well and heads back to the Yawning Portal. If you're 
tracking exper ience points, Yagra gets an equal share of 
the XP while a member of the adventuring party. 
AREAS OF THE LAIR 
The following areas correspond to the labels on map 
5.1. This lair has two levels connected by staircases and 
secret doors. 
XI. STAIRCASE OF EYES 
Characters are most likely to enter Xanathar's lair by 
this route: a spiral staircase accessible from the Castle 
Ward's sewers and hidden behind a secret door. This 
staircase circumvents a more difficult route through 
Undermountain and Skullport, which is described in 
Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage. 
When the characters find the staircase, read: 
l 
T~e walls of this narrow, spiraling staircase are carved I 
with opened eyes that glow with a faint, magical light. 
Characters feel as though they're being watched as they 
descend the stairs, and the feeling doesn't go away once 
they enter the beholder's lair. The dimly lit staircase 
descends for hundreds of feet, ending before a circular 
stone door that swings open into area X2. 
X2. WATCHED HALL 
This magically lit hall has the following features: 
The walls are carved with eyes of all shapes and sizes. 
Many of the orbs have stone eyelids that open and 
close at irregular intervals. 
• Characters who succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) chec k notice a ghostly eyestalk (scrying sensor) 
protruding from the ceiling directly in front of the dou­
ble door to the south. 
• A secret door is hidden in the west wall. 
C H APTE R 5 I SPR I NG MADNESS 
B/Jnki n' Eyes. The blinking eye carvings are slightly 
unnerving but harmless. 
Scryin' Sensor. The ghostly eyestalk is a magical 
sensor that allows one of the apprentice wizards in area 
X16 to monitor this hall. The eyestalk functions as an 
extra eye with dark vision out to a range of 60 feet. A 
character can ascertain the eyestalk's function with a 
successful DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check but can't 
determine who's peering through it, or from where. The 
eyestalk can't be damaged but is destroyed by a dispel 
magic spell. The sensor is suppressed within the area of 
an antimagic field. 
Secr et Door. The sec ret door can be found with a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) chec k. To open 
it, one must press a nearby wall carving shaped like an 
eye. When this is done, the secret door swings inward, 
revealing a curved hallway (area X8) beyond. 
X3. B EHOLDER ZOMBIE GUARD 
A beholder zombi e guards this magically lit room. Sur­
rounding it are four gas spores, which look like imma ­
ture beholders at first glance. All five creatures float in 
the middle of the room. 
The beholder zombie is all that remains of a beholder 
that arose from the Underdark to challenge Xanathar 's 
supremacy. After defeating its rival, Xanathar had the 
corpse animated and transformed into a lair guardfan. 
The gas spo res were added later. 
The beholder zombie allows creatures that brandish 
the symbol of Xanathar to pass unmolested. Otherwise, 
it attacks. The gas spores don't attack but explode if they 
take any damage. The beholder zombie is immune to 
their Death Burst trait. 
X4. TUNNEL TO SKULLPORT 
This magically lit tunnel extends 300 feet eastward off 
the map. It ends at a staircase that climbs 20 feet to the 
Guts & Garters Inn, an establishment located in the sub­
terranean town of Sku II port, which is under Xanathar's 
control. See Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage for 
more information on the inn and Skullport. 
X5. HORROR'S ALCOVE 
A suit of animated armor with Xanathar's symbol 
embossed on its breastplate stand s in this alcove, ap­
pearing at a glance to be an ornate but inanimate suit of 
armor on display. It remains inert until it takes damage 
or is summoned to area X6 by Xanathar. (The beholder 
uses it to keep the spectators in the arena from getting 
too rowdy.) 
X6. PIT OF BLOOD AND FORTUNE 
Xanathar has turned this room into a gladiatorial arena. 
It also uses this location to dispose of underlings it no 
longer trusts in a manner that it considers entertai ning. 
This area has the following features: 
A magically lit, circular chamber has a thin layer of 
blood-soaked sand covering the floor and stone but­
tresses supporting its 40-foot-high domed ceiling. 
• Ten-foot-high stone bleachers hug the northwest half 
of the room. Staircases lead from the bleachers to 
othe r areas of the lair, and a tunnel under the bleach­
ers leads west to the monster cell block (area X7). 