many as three questions. He's never seen Ahmaergo's 
chambers (areas Xl 1 and Xl2) but knows the rest of the 
lair well. 
ff the characters are looking for a way to mess with 
Xanathar's operation, Thorvin suggests they coerce 
Nar'I Xibrindas, the beholder's advisor (see area X18). 
into giving them the large supply of smokepowder that 
he smuggled into the dungeon. Thorvin also tells them 
where to plant the smokepowdcr to cause the most dam­
age (see "Destroy the Lair," page 100). 
Xl4. SECRET H ALLWAY 
This magica lly lit hall is concealed behind secret doors. 
Tt circumvents the audience chamber (area Xl8) and 
gently slopes down toward the east. Finding either se­
cret door requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check. 
Xl5. STAIRS TO THE MAZE 
Characters at the top of these magically lit stairs can 
hear loud music and raucous laughte r boiling up from 
below. The staircase descends 20 feet to area X28. 
Xl6. PANOPTICUS GUARD STAT ION 
This room contains the following features: 
Five bald shield dwarves, their heads covered w ith 
purple eye tattoos, sit around the edge of a glow ing 
circle on the floor. Their eyes are scrunched shut, but 
they are aware of their surroundings. 
GH APH R 5 I SPR I NG MADNESS 
• Protruding from the ceiling, directly above the circle, 
is a large, flaring bronze "bell'' similar in shape to the 
mouth of a tuba. 
• Set into the back of a recessed wall is a secret door 
that leads to area X 17. 
Dwarves. The five tattooed dwarves operate Xana­
thar's ''panopticus" magical surveillance system. They 
fight only in self-defense. They are apprentic e wizards 
(see appendix 8), with these changes: 
• They are neutral. 
• They have these racial traits: Their walking speed is 
25 feet. They have advantage on saving throws against 
poison and resistance to poison damage. They have 
darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. They speak Com­
mon and Dwarvish. 
Nihiloor the mind flayer has psychically and surgically 
altered the dwarves so that they sleep with ooe eye 
open and half their brains asleep at any time. 
Amplificatio n Bell. The bronze bell is connected to 
a tube that runs through the stone and into the nearby 
audience chamber (area Xl8). The bell amplifies sounds 
underneath it and transmits those sounds to the audi­
ence chamber. 
Scrying Circle. A detect magic spell reveals an aura of 
divination magic around the circle, which the dwarves 
use to scry on various other locations within the dun­
geon: the entrance hall (area X2). the arena (area X6). 
the antechamber of madness (area X23), the recreation 
hall (area X28), and the downstairs hall (area X32). One 