dwarf watches each location and communicates what 
it sees via the bronze bell. The scrying circle functions 
for no one else. It is suppressed within an antimagic 
field and can also be dispelled (DC 17). When the cir­
cle ceases to exist, the ghostly eyestalk sensors in the 
above-mentioned locations disappear as well. 
Secret Door. The secret door can be spotted with a 
successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check_ A pedal 
hidden in the floor, when stepped on, causes the door to 
swing inward. 
Xl7. PROMENADE 
Pillars carved with eyes follow the curvature of the hall, 
and these eyes seem to track creatures as they pass by. 
This isn't a magical effect but an optical illusion. 
Mlfiordomo. If he's not with Xanathar in the arena 
(area X6), Ahmaergo (see appendix B) is conducting a 
routine inspection of the dungeon. The characte rs can 
hear the dwarf's echoing footfalls as he approaches their 
location . If he sees intruders and is outnumbered, Ah­
maergo retreats to area X22J heads downstairs to gather 
reinforcements from area X28, and leads a search party 
to capture the interlopers. If he sees only one intruder, 
he draws his axe and attacks. 
Secret Door. The northernmost end of this hallway 
displays a fresco of a leafless tree that has lidless eyes 
embedded in its branches. Pressing a specific eye 
causes a door-shaped sect ion of the wall to swing open 
into area Xl6. Characters can find the secret door and 
the switch with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check. 
X18. AUDI ENCE CHAMBER 
Xanathar greets visitors and makes speeches to its min­
ions in this 40-foot-high domed chamber. Characters 
who were seen by the scrying sensors anywhere in the 
dungeon complex can't surprise the creatures here. The 
magically lit room contains the following features: 
• The circular floor is tiled in black marble and bears a 
gold mosaic ofXanathar's symbol. 
• Jutting from the ceiling is a bronze, bell-shaped pro­
tuberance. (This fixture is the other end of the sound 
amp lifier described in area X16.) 
Displayed against the curved walls are a dozen lifelike 
statues (the remains of humans, drow, dwarves, gobli­
noids, and kobolds who defied the beholder). 
• Hidden in the floor is a secret trapdoor. 
While in this room, Xanathar uses its ring of invisi­
bility to remain unseen and can use a bonus action to 
activate or deactivate a psychedelic display of magical 
lights, each one the size of a human eyeball. The lights 
fill a 10-foot cube in the middle of the room, and the 
beholder can throw its voice so that it seems to emanate 
from the same area. Any character who succeeds on a 
DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check can tell that the display 
isn't the source of the voice. 
If the beholder is here, ifs using the psychedelic 
light display to deliver an incoherent, self-aggrandizing 
speech to a group of sycophantic underlings consist­
ing of ten human bandits and two duergar who have 
never seen Xanathar's true form. These minions clutch 
tankards of Wyrmwizz Ale (a cheap Sku ll port brew) 
and toast Xanathar whenever the beholder commends 
itself. Xanathar's treacherous drow mage advisor, Nar'I 
Xibrindas (see appendix B), stands in front of the open 
door to area Xl 9, clapping weakly at the speech. Float­
ing next to Nar'l is his grell bodyguard. IfXanathar has 
been warned that the characters are near, it wraps up its 
speech and grants them an audience; see "Facing Xana­
thar," page 99, for more information. 
If Xanathar is elsewhere, this room contains only 
Nar'l and the grell. Nar'l tries to lure adventurers into a 
showdown with the beholder. If he is wounded. he flees 
through the trapdoor in the floor and retreats to area 
X35 while the grell covers his escape. 
If the party includes members of Bregan D'aerthe and 
Nar'I recognizes them as such, he gives them his vial 
of eyescratch poison so they can blind Xanathar with it. 
This act of treachery, witnessed by the grell, turns the 
creature against him. 
Secret Trapdoor. A hidden trapdoor in the floor can 
be found with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. 1t can be lifted with a successfu l DC 12 Strength 
(Athletics) check, revealing a wooden ladder that leads 
down to area X29. 
Xl9. XANATHAR'S SANCTUM 
This magically lit room has a fiat, 30-foot-high ceiling 
and contains several features: 
• Luminous violet particles drift through the air like 
mist. A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check 
reveals that these are Underdark spores. 
• A 20-foot-diameter fishbowl dominates the room. 
Filled with water. it also contains a small coral reef. a 
miniature shipwreck. and a sunken treasure chest. 
A smaller fishbowl, 3 feet in diameter, rests on a ped­
estal next to the larger bowl. A dwarf wearing a skull­
cap adorned with eyestalks feeds a trout-sized fish 
that swims in circles in this smaller bowl. 
• A 10-foot-diameter silver mirror is embedded in the 
western wall. Letters are engraved into its frame. 
• The eastern tunnel starts 10 feet above the floor and 
gent ly slopes upward to area X21. (Xanatha r uses this 
passage as an escape route.) 
If Xanathar (see appendix B) is here, it's invisible and 
speaking affectionately to the fish while the dwarf, Ott 
Steeltoes, feeds it. 
DwarfFishk eeper. Ott Steeltoes (see appendix 8) 
is Xanathar's fish keeper. If he sees intrude rs and the 
beholder isn't present, Ott draws his dagger and stam­
mers, "You shouldn't be here! Stay back, or I'll call the 
boss!" Ott can't telepathically communicate with Xana­
thar, but he thinks he can. He closes his eyes and fran­
tically asks for Xanathar to return to its sanctum and 
disintegrate the intruders. 
Fishbowls. Xanathar's pet fish. Sylgar, is the only 
creature that the beholder loves as much as itself. ln 
fact, there have been many Sylgars over the years. but 
Ott is skilled at acquiring a replacement before Xana­
thar realizes its beloved pet has died. 
Sylgar's large fishbowl weighs about 6,000 pounds, 
and the treasure chest at the bottom is real (see "Trea­
sure" below). The small fishbowl weighs 60 pounds 
CHAPTER 5 I SPR ING MADNES S 