MAKE WATERDEEP YOUR OWN 
Much has been written about Waterdeep over the years. 
This book presents much of that information, but you 
aren't bound by it. Feel free to embellish and change what 
you will. Your version ofWaterdeep is the only version that 
matters for your campaign 
ADVENTUR E STRUCTURE 
Waterdeep: Dra~on Heist consists of an introductory 
adventure designed to familiarize player characters with 
the city of Waterdeep and provide them with a base of 
operations (chapters 1 and 2). followed by a citywide 
treasure hunt (chapters 3 and 4) and descriptions of the 
villains' lairs (chapters 5 through 8). 
In chapter 1. the characters arrive at the Yawning Por­
tal, where Volo gives them a quest. It's a straightforward 
rescue mission with a twist involving a case of mistaken 
identity. If the adventurers complete the quest, Volo re­
wards them with a valuab le piece of property. 
In chapter 2, the characters explore their new home 
in Trollskull Alley and attract the attention of factions 
interested in recruiting them for specia l missions. 
Chapter 3 begins days or weeks later. allowing char­
acters time to adjust to city life and pursue their own 
interests. An explosion tears through Trollskull Alley, 
prompting an investigation that hurls the characters into 
conflict with some secondary villains, culminating in a 
bloody confrontation at a noble esta te. 
In chapter 4. the characters race to find the gold. The 
encounters in this chapter and the order in which they 
occur change depending on the villain you've chosen. 
The chapter concludes with the discovery of Lord Nev­
erember's treasure vault and a showdown with its gold 
dragon guardian. The characters' ultimate goal is to pre­
vent the gold from falling into the hands of the bad guys. 
If all goes well, some of the gold will find its way into the 
characters' pockets. Characters will have a hard time 
claiming it all for themselves, however. 
Chapters 5 through 8 describe the lairs of the story's 
villains and can be used at any time, in a ny order, or 
not at all. The cha racters might have reason to visit one 
or more of these lairs in the course of the adventure. 
Thwarting the villains doesn't require the characters to 
invade their lairs or defeat them in combat, so it's pos­
sible to complete the adventure without these chapters 
coming into play. 
Be prepared to make adjustments on the fly if the 
characters find themselves in a villain's lair prior to 
comp leting chapter 4, as the challenges within each 
lair are difficult for characters of lower than Srh level to 
overcome. You can gently steer characters in a different 
direction, drop hints that urge them to use extreme 
caution, or make deadly encounters easier. It also bea rs 
remembering that the villains are meant to be thwarted. 
not killed, and they are rarely spoiling for a fight. Ad­
venturers who get in over their heads can be knocked 
unconscious rather than killed. Such characters might 
awaken in an alley, a sewer runnel, or a prison cell, with 
or without their gear. Conversely, they might awaken 
safe and sound with all their gear in a private residence, 
being cared for by friendly NPCs who took them in. 
I NTRODUCTION 
VoLo's W ATERDEE P ENCHI RIDIO N 
The special chapter of this book titled "Volo's Waterdeep 
Enchiridion" is a tour of the City of Splendors. If you're 
unfamiliar with Waterdeep, review this section before 
running the adventure. You can also share this section 
with players whose characters would know general in­
formation about the city. 
LIFE IN WATERDEEP 
City-based adventures can be challenging to run. espe­
cially if your player characters are inclined to wander. 
Keeping the characters in Waterdeep, where the action 
is, requires that they feel at home. To that end, here are 
some points to keep in mind: 
• Almost anything can be bought or sold in Waterdeep. 
There's no need for adventurers to shop elsewhere. 
• Waterdavians generally hold adventurers in high re­
gard, given that many of the city's most esteemed citi­
zens are former adventurers and that the city has been 
saved countless times by adventurers over the years. 
• Adventurers who are invested in the city are less 
likely to want to leave it. As your players flesh out their 
characters' backgrounds, encourage them to establish 
roots in Waterdeep. The adventure further invests 
the characters by awarding them property in the city 
and giving them opportunities to join local factions 
and guilds. 
BREAKING THE LAW 
Waterdeep is a city of firm laws and swift justice. Adven­
turers hell-bent on slaughter and plunder won't fare well 
in the City of Splendors. The punishments for assault, 
arson, theft, and murder are severe, regardless of the 
reason for the crime. 
If the characters express interest in knowing more 
about crimes and punishments in Waterdeep, give them 
the Code Legal handout in appe ndix C. 
Characters who overtly engage in criminal behavior 
are quick ly cornered and arrested by members of the 
City Watch. Those charged with committing a crime 
are brought before a magister to be judged. Advocates 
might intercede on beha lf of the characters if they have 
allied themselves with influential NPCs and factions. 
For example, characters who become agents of the 
Lords' Alliance are more likely to be excused for crimes 
if Laeral Silverhand, the Open Lord of Waterdeep. has 
cause to let them off the hook. 
Given how strictly laws are enforced in Waterdeep, it's 
possible that the adventure could end with one or more 
of the characters being exiled, sentenced to several 
years of hard labor, imprisoned, or put to death. Tf that's 
how their adventure ends, so be it. Hopefully, your next 
group will fare better. 
ARRESTING C H ARACTERS 
When the authorities show up to arrest one or more 
player characters for breaking the law, you can handle 
the arrest in one of two ways. 
The first approach is to roleplay the encounter with 
the arrest ing officers of the City Watch. The benefit 