carv ing on the wall djscharges a green ray that the 
charact er can dodge with a successful DC 16 Dexterity 
saving throw. Jf the ray hits, the characte r appears to be 
disintegrated but is actually teleported to area X34a or 
X34b, depending on which button was pushed. Once a 
button is pushed, it locks in place for J hour and can't 
be pushed again untH that time elapses. A character can 
forcibly reset a button by making a successful DC 20 
Dexterity check using thieves' tools. 
X34. W IZARD TOMBS 
These crypts were built to hold the remains of two 
wizards who lived in this dungeon complex long before 
Xanathar took it over. Only one wizard is entombed 
here, however. The fate of the other wizard is unknown. 
Both chambers are encased in solid stone and brightly 
lit by continual flame spe lls cast on wall sconces . 
X34a . In the middle of this tomb rests a gold marble 
sarcophagus, its lid ca rved in the likeness of a long­
haired human wizard who wears a robe adorned with 
closed eyes. The sarcophagus can't be pried open or 
damaged, but if a spell is cast within the tomb, the eyes 
of the robe open all at once-an eerie yet harmless ef­
fect-and the lid slowly levitates into the air, revealing 
the contents of the sarcophagus: a shriveled, inanimate 
mummy wearing eyes of charming. After 1 minute , 
the eyes on the lid close as it slowly sinks back dow:1, 
resealing the sarcophag us until another spell is cast 
within the tomb. 
A character who dons the eyes of charming can see, 
through its blue lenses, a blue metal tile shaped like a 
four-pointed star on the west wall. The tile is invisible 
otherwise, but can be found with a tactile search and a 
s uccessful DC 17 Wisdom (Pe rcept ion) check. When a 
creat ure .ouches the tile, all creatures in the tomb are 
instantly teleported to the arena (area X6). 
X34b . This tomb is empty except for an iovisjble, blue 
metal tile on the west wall. It functions identically to the 
one in area X34a. 
X35. NAR'L X IBRINDAS
1
S OFF ICE 
The continua l flame spe lls that once lit this room 
have been dispelled. Cha racters need light sou rces or 
darkvision to see here. The room contains the follow­
ing features: 
• Two open crates rest agajnst the north wall. 
• A stone desk in the southwest corner is completely 
free of papers. The chair behind it is carved with a 
spider motif. 
• Bare stone bookshelves stand against the east wall. 
Crates. One crate contains fifty stuffed beholder dolls. 
The other contruns thirty onyx trophies (worth 25 gp 
each) depicting a smiling beholder being caressed by 
hands. The dolls and trophjes are among the prizes 
given to winners of Xanathar's combat tournaments. 
Desk. The chair behind the desk has a secret com­
partment under its left armrest that can be found and 
opened with a successfu l DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check. This tiny compartment contains a sma ll black 
key that unlocks both of the desk drawers. A character 
can pick each lock with a successful DC 17 Dexterity 
check using thieves' tools. 
The first drawer holds Nar'l's spellbook, a sturdy 
tome bound in black leather and wrapped in webbing. It 
contfilns all the spe lls that Nar'l has prepared, plus the 
sending spell. 
The secon d drawer conta:ns a bag of holding that be· 
longs tojarlaxle Baenre. Nar'I borrowed this magic item 
and used it to smuggle kegs of smokepowder into Xana· 
thar's lair (see area X36). 
Secret Doors. A stone bookshelf in the southeast cor­
ner of this room rotates into the wall, revealing a sec ret 
passage that cu:ves north. A character can find this se­
cret door with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) 
check, or simply by pushing on the bookshelf. 
A second secret door at the end of the curved hall can 
be found without an ability check; it pulls open to reveal 
a dark and dusty chamber (area X36) beyond. 
X36. SECRET R OOM 
This room has the following features: 
• The room is unlit and choked with dust and cobwebs. 
• Twenty kegs of smokepowder are neatly stacked in 
the middle of the room. Each keg has a paper label, 
written on which are the words "SMOKEPOWDER! DO 
NOT OPEN!" in Common and Elvish. 
Neither Xanathar nor its loyal underlings know this 
room exjsts. When Nar'l found it, he asked to have the 