adjoining room (area X35) lurned into his office so that 
he could keep this ro0m secret. The only other individ­
ual who knows about this room is Thorvin Twinbeard, 
Xanathar's chief engineer, but he's not inclined to tell 
the beholder about it. 
Kegs. Each keg comes with a fuse and holds 5 pounds 
of smokepowder (see appendix A). To collapse Xana­
thar's lair, at least two kegs must be placed at each weak 
point (see "Destroy the Lair,'' page 100). 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
You can use one or both of the following special evencs 
as the characters make their way through Xaoathar 's 
lair, or as they try to thwart Xanathar's agents in 
Waterdeep. 
B LOOD AND FORTUNE 
The beholder holds gladiatoria l tournaments whenever 
it needs a little violence to brighten its day. The winners 
of a tournament receive trophies, and wagers are made 
on the sly. 
A single tournament has twelve combatants and con­
sists of three fights with short rests in between. Failure 
to heed the following rules result in a combatant's dis­
qualification: 
All tournament combatants must wait in area X7 until 
they're called to area X6 to fight. 
• During a fight event, no combatant can leave the arena 
or attack anyone who isn't a combatant in thac event. 
TOURNAMENT STRUCTURE 
Nosk2 Ur'gray takes the twelve combatants and as­
sembles them in four teams of three. To keep the fights 
interesting, Noska tries to even out the teams as much 
as possible. A team might have all player cha ract ers, all 
NPCs, or a combination of the two. 
The first fight pits team 1 against team 2. The second 
fight pits team 3 againsl learn 4. The third and final fight 
pits the winning teams of the previous two fights against 
one anolhcr. A fight ends when all combatants on one 
team are incapaci taled, killed, or disqualified. 
W INNING THE TOURNA M ENT 
Each member of the winning team who survives the 
third fight receives a stuffed Xanathar doll with a pocket 
in its mouth that holds a 100 gp gemstone. and an onyx 
trophy carved to look like a smi ling beholder being ca­
ressed by hands (worth 25 gp). 
TOURNAMENT WAGERS 
Spectators like to place side bets on their favorite teams. 
The maximum wager is 10 gp. A cha racter who places 
a wager on the team that wins the tournament receives 
winnings equal to five times the wager. 
TROLLTIDE SLAUGHTER 
Trolltide is a fun springtime holiday for most W.aterdeep 
denizen s, including Xanathar, but the beholder has 
planned a cruel twist on the holiday this year. 
CHAPTER 5 I SPRING MADNESS 
The Xanathar Guild recen tly captured some trolls in 
Undermountain. The trolls are fitted with eyeless helms 
and ball-and -chain shackles around their ankles. They 
are then set loose in different wards of the city during 
Trolltide. When the characters happen upon such a 
scene, read: 
Children in troll masks run through the fog and drizzle, 
knocking on doors and stopping adults in the streets. 
Those who aren't placated with candied apples, sticks 
of salted meat, and other treats perpetrate all manner of 
tricks. A grumpy old woman has a rat thrown in her face. 
A burly dwarf has his pipe pilfered. 
A small crowd of onlookers is gathered around a ten­
foot·tall wicker effigy of a troll, stamping their feet as two 
young men struggle to set the likeness ablaze with sput· 
tering torches. 
Suddenly a white-haired man bolts toward the crowd, 
his face a mask of terror. Behind him lurches a massive, 
green-skinned giant dragging a ball and chain across the 
cobbled street. A blind helm covers the troll's eyes, but 
its mouth ls a veritable cavern of sharp teeth. It flails its 
arms, slashing at the fog around it, and lets out a horri· 
ble wail of frustration. The crowd panics at the sight of it 
and flees into the mist and rain. Meanwhile, two mem· 
bers of the City Watch sneak up behind the blind troll, 
hoping to strike a mortal blow. 
The white-haired man is a Waterdavian noble of no 
real accomp lishments named Bromas Sultlue. When 
he sees the characters, he shouts, "It's a troll! Do some­
thing!" If the characters intervene, the two City Watch 
vete ra ns fight alongside them. These constables act on 
the same initiative count. On their initiative count each 
round, there's a noncumulative 20 percent chance that 
anot her vetera n arrives and jo.ins the fray. 
The troll is blinded while wearing the eyeless helm, 
and lhe ball-and -chain s hackles clamped around its an­
kles reduce its walking speed to 20 feet. In this state, its 
challenge rating is 4 (1,100 XP). As the characters battle 
the troll, children in troll masks bravely pelt the creature 
with candied apples. 
DEVELOPMENT 
If the characters contribute to the defeat of the troll, the 
City Watch is grateful. Bromas Sultlue congratulates 
them and spends the next tenday recounting every detail 
of the battle to friends and family members. The story 
of the characters' heroism spreads. and they gain many 
new patrons at their tavern. For the next six tendays, 
when determining the tavern's profitability. add 20 to 
rolls on the Running a Business table (see "Tavern 
Keeping Expenses," page 41). Thereafter, add 10 to 
such rolls to represent Waterdeep's lingering fondness 
for the "Trollslayers of Trollskull Alley." 