LADY AMMALIA CASSALANTER 
Lady Cassalanter reacts with surprise to the sight of 
uninvited guests, but quickly conceals her feelings with 
a welcoming smile. She attempts to gain the intruders' 
confidence by pretending to believe that they are guests 
ofVicto ro's and saying that she simply was not told of 
their presence. With this pretense estab lished, she tries 
to lea rn the characters' true intentions, cast ing charm 
person on the party using a 5th-level spell slot (affecting 
up to five creatures within 30 feet) if necessary. Using 
magic in this way is illegal, but Ammalia has a lot of 
goodwill banked in Waterdeep - enough to curry favor 
with a magistrate. 
During the hours when Ammalia is home and awake. 
her location in the villa can be determined randomly: 
dl 00 Ammalia's Location 
01- 70 She's tending to her butterfly garden {area C25). 
71 - 90 She's smoking on the balcony (area C25a). 
91- 00 She's weeping before Osvaldo in the attic 
{area C24). 
LORD VrcTORO CASSALANTER 
Victoro Cassalanter reacts with fiery rage to the sight of 
uninvited guests. He demands to know their names and 
calls for the butler, Willifort Crowelle, to show them out. 
If he has the chance, he subtly casts dominate person 
on one of the characters using an 8th-level spe ll slot 
(extending its duration to 8 hours) to plant a spy among 
their ranks. As soon as the intruders are gone, he retires 
to his office (area C6) and uses his action to take tota l 
control of the dominated character. The dominated char­
acter report s to the City Watch that the party broke into 
Cassalanter Villa and must be arrested for their crime. 
During the hours when Victoro is home and awake, 
his location in the villa can be determined randomly: 
dl 00 Victoro's Location 
01-70 He's in his office (area C6). 
71- 90 He's in the reading room (area C4). 
91- 00 He's with Ammalia at one of the three locations 
mentioned above. 
(ASSALANTER LORE 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (History) check reveals 
the following information about CassalanterYilla and its 
inhabitants: 
• The Cassalanters fell on hard times a few years back, but 
they have since reversed their fortunes and restored their 
lucrative banking and money-lending business. 
• Victoro and Ammalia's eldest son disappeared three 
years ago when the family was on the verge of bank· 
ruptcy. They have two surviving children, young twins 
named Terenzio and Elzerina. 
• Lord Victoro Cassalanter is the only living heir of the late 
Caladorn Cassalanter, a former Masked Lord and a hero 
of the North. 
• Over the years, the Cassalanters have founded a number 
of philanthropic societies and made generous donations 
to temples dedicated to good-aligned deities. They are 
known to worship Siamorphe, a demigod whose ethos is 
the nobility's right and responsibility to rule. 
C ll APT ER 6 I HE LL OF A SUM M ER 
T'ERENZIO AND ELZERINA 
The Cassala nter twins aren't members of their parents" 
cult and have no other friends. since they are privately 
tutored and rarely allowed to leave the estate. Around 
strangers, Terenzio becomes suspicious and meek. 
while Elzerina seems brash and outgoing. Both chil­
dren a re incredibly excited to meet friendly strangers 
and treat their "new friends" to a trip around the house. 
They help the characters sneak through the villa, since 
the ch ildren know they aren't s upposed to have guests. 
During the hours when the children are awake. their 
location in the villa can be determined randomly: 
dlOO 
01-50 
51 - 75 
76-00 
Terenzio and Elzerina's Location 
They're playing in their room {area C18). 
They're in the library (area C3). 
They're chasing butterflies in the garden (area C25). 
Terenz io and Elzerina have places in the house that 
their parents have forbade them from visit ing-and that 
they are excited to explore, now that they have friends to 
accompany them. These locations are as follows: 
• Their father's office (area C6) 
• The attic (area C24) 
• The wine cellar area (C28) 
If asked about their parents, Terenzio and Elzerina 
report that their parents are searching for some missing 
dragons. (What their parents plan to do with a bunch of 
scary, winged reptiles is beyond them, and Terenzio and 
Elzerina are too sca red to ask.) If befriended, they reveal 
that their father keeps a journal in his office (area C6). 
If asked about their older brother, Osvaldo. Terenzio 
and Elzerina repeat what their parents have told them: 
he's attending school in a faraway city (they don't recall 
which one). Neither knows the cruel fate that has be­
fallen Osvaldo (see area C24) or suspects that a similar 
fate awaits them. 
HEA D SERVANTS 
The head servants of Cassalanter Villa are members of 
the cult. These four servants are described below. All 
appear to be tieflings, though one is not. The following 
changes apply to the tiefiings' stat blocks: 
• The tiefiings are lawful evil. 
• They have these racial traits: They know the thauma­
turgy cantrip, and Charisma is their spellcasting abil­
ity for this spell. They have resistance to fire damage. 
They have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. They 
speak Common and Infernal. 
WlLLIFORT CROWELLE 
Willi fort dresses in a sharp black suit and wears thin­
rimmed spectac les. He's a dopp elganger that usually 
takes the form of an aging male tiefiing, and he greets 
all guests in the entrance hall (area Cl). 
As the Cassalanters' chief butler and Lord Victoro's 
personal attendant, Willifort Crowelle makes a point of 
knowing everything that transpires within the villa. If 
the Cassalanters have guests, he escorts them during 
their entire visit, using stealth if necessary. He ushers 
nosy guests away from areas or objects that might link 
the Cassalante rs with the Asmodeus-worshiping cult. 