doubles, and Victoro dispenses with all human guards 
inside the house . Whenever a guard is mentioned in 
an interior area, that guard is now a bearded devil dis­
guised as a human. A disguised devil looks like a mus­
cular, bearded male human in house livery. A creature 
that observes one closely can, with a successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check, notice its "beard" writhing . 
DENIZENS OF CASSALANTER VILLA 
Cassalanter Villa is home to no one but Lord and Lady 
Cassalanter, their children, their personal attendants, 
and their guards. All the other servants who work at the 
villa live in dingy homes in the Dock Ward or the Field 
Ward and travel across the city in the wee hours of the 
morning to arrive before the Cassalanters awake. 
With the exception of their persona l attendants, the 
Cassalanters replenish their servants regularly. Most 
move on to other jobs , but occasionally a servant discov­
ers the secret vault (area C29), visits the forbidden attic 
(area C24), or otherwise learns too much. S uch folk are 
fated to become sacr ifices to Asmodeus . 
VILLA FEATURES 
The following features are found throughout the villa: 
Ceilings in rooms are 25 feet high , with 7-foot-high 
corridors and doorway s connecting them. 
Doors are made of exotic hardwood . If a door is 
locked, the Jock can be picked by a character who 
makes a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using 
thieves' tools, or the door can be forced open by a 
character who makes a successfu l DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Victoro, Ammalia, and the head but­
ler, Willifort, bold keys to every room in the house . 
• Floors are made of wood and covered with soft 
woolen carpets . Creatures walking in ca rpeted rooms 
have advantage on Dexterity (Stea lth) checks. 
All areas are well lit by oil lamps , lanterns , or 
chandeliers . 
• The Cassalanters keep no silver objects (with the ex­
ception of coins) in their house, s ince silver is harmful 
to devils. 
AREAS OF THE VILLA 
The following areas correspond to the labels on map 
6.1. The villa connects to the temple of Asmodeus 
through a secret door in area C28. 
If the occupants or features of a location cha nge 
during the Founders' Day party, the text includes a 
"Founders' Day" section describing those changes . 
GuEsTHousE 
The Cassalanters host guests in this stately guest house. 
CGJ. Mud Room . Guests can remove and store dirty 
cloaks and boots here. 
CG2. Storage . Guests can store thei r traveling 
gear here. 
CG3. Dining Room . This room is furnished with two 
dining tables, each su rrounded by six chai rs. 
CG4. Kitchen. Guests are expected to dine with the 
Cassalanters in the manor but ca n prepare their own 
breakfast here. 
CHAPTER 6 I KELL OF A SU MM.ER 
CG5. Parlor . This room is furnished with a billiard 
table, a card table, and four luxurious armchairs. 
CG6. Sitting Room. This room features an upright 
piano and four luxurious armchairs. 
CG7. Bedroom s. Each room contains a bed for two, 
a pair of wardrobes, a small vanity with matching stool, 
and a storage trunk for valuables. 
CG8. Master Bedroo m. This room has a balcony 
and conta ins a larg e canopied bed, a standing mirror 
in a gilded frame, a writing desk and matching chair , 
a dresse r, a tall wardrobe, and an owlbear throw rug 
draped over a padded cha ir with matching ottoman. 
COACH HOUSE 
The Cassalanters own three carriages - one for their 
banking business, one for public appearances, and one 
for private use. They also own six horses: four draft 
horses to pull carriages and two riding horses. The 
horses are kept in sta lls that are cleaned every morning 
just before dawn. Tack, bridles, feed, and othe r necessi­
ties for the horses are stored in the coach house as well. 
Cl. ENTRANCE HALL 
This hall has the following features: 
• A magnificent harpsichord sits in the hall. 
A crimson carpet runs down the hall toward an open 
door to the foyer. 
• Light from a crysta l chandelier reflects off more than 
three dozen holy symbols of Siamorphe perched on 
wall shelves, each in the form of a silver chalice with a 
golden sun etched on its outside. 
If the cha racte rs are expected guests, Willifort Crow­
elle (see "Head Servants," page 116) awaits them here 
and guides them to the smoking room (area Cl2) to 
meet with Lord Cassa lanter. He allows them to explore 
the house while they wait but follows them dogged ly. 
Founders' Day. The hall is filled with chatty guests 
holding flutes of spa rkling wine. One is playing the 
harpsichord. 
C2. GARDEN MUDROOM 
This room has the following features: 
• A guard dressed in House Cassa lanter livery sits idly 
on a crate, watching the outside door. 
• The floor is caked with mud. Several rows of muddy 
boots and garden ing gloves are strewn about the floor. 
Founders' Day. Esvele Rosznar , the Black Viper 
(see appendix B), is hiding in an alcove and putting on 
her Black Viper mask and hood. She is wearing a sleek 
black leather suit, and a frilly ball gown lies at her feet. 
Esvele has slipped away from her overbea ring parents , 
Rolteme and Azalea Rosznar, and is preparing to sneak 
through the villa and rob the Cassalanters blind. 
The characters can convince the Black Viper to help 
them as they scour Cassalanter Villa by succeedi ng on a 
DC 14 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check. If 
Esvele decides to help the characters , she fights along­
side them and dis covers treasure and secret door s au­
tomatically. 