howl impotently at the misery being inflicted on him. He 
is thoroughly insane and can't be reasoned with. 
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
reveals that the pentagram prevents Osvaldo from ma­
nipulating his chains, and that the effect ends if another 
creature enters the area encompassed by the penta­
gram. The magic of the pentagram can also be dispelled 
(DC 15). If he is freed, Osvaldo regains control of his 
chains and attacks indiscriminately. If he is reduced to 0 
hit points. the chain devil cries out for his mother before 
melting into a pool of sickening black ichor. 
C24A. ATTIC STORAGE 
This room contain s derelict furnishin gs draped in black 
linens: chairs, coat racks. freestanding mirrors, dress 
mannequins. and the like. These draped objects take on 
a sinister countenance in the gloom but are harmless. 
C25. BUTTERFL Y GARDEN 
In the spring, Ammalia Cassalanter's gardens attract 
caterpillars. which transform into butterflies come sum­
mer. Lady Cassalanter's butterfly garden is the envy of 
her peers. The sweet scent of flow ers and herbs filters 
up from the planters and rose bushes. 
IfTerenzio and Elzerina are here, they are frolicking 
in the garden. If Amm alia Cassalanter (see appendix 
B) is here, she's watching the children or tending to her 
garden. Six imps in raven form hang around the butter­
fly garden and occasionally prey on Ammalia's prized 
pets when their mistress isn't looking. Despite their 
insolence, Ammalia uses these imps as spies. She sends 
them on missions throughout the city. They also warn 
Ammalia of trespassers and attack anyone who threat ­
ens a member of her family. 
Found ers' Day. During the party, two young, hot­
blooded nobles have accidentally offended one another. 
They have changed into dueling garb and are fighting 
with rapiers to resolve their differences while onlookers 
drink wine and cheer chem on. 
C25A. CARDEN BALCONY 
This balcony overlooks the grounds of the Cassalantcr 
estate and even offers a view of the Sea of Swords be­
yond the outer wall of the Sea Ward. 
If Ammalia Cassalanter (see appendix B) is here, 
she's smoking and either staring dismally out toward 
the ocean or watching her childr en in the garden below 
(area C25). 
C26. CELLAR 
This cellar is kept free of dust and cobwebs by servants. 
It is unsettlingly cold, no matter the time of year. It con­
tains spare furniture, a laundry tub, and trunks full of 
old clothing. 
C27. FALSE VAULT 
The door to this vault is made of solid iron and sports 
three different locks. Victoro and Ammalia each have a 
set of keys for them. Opening the door without the keys 
requires a character to succeed on three consecutive 
DC 20 Dexterity checks using thieves' tools. On a failed 
check, all three locks reset. The door has AC 19. a dam­
age threshold of 10, 90 hit points, and immunity to poi-
son and psychic damage. A creature can break it down 
with a successful DC 27 Strength (Ath letics) check. 
The vault is empty. 
Cold Trap. lf a creature enters the vault without first 
saying "Gold is my shield," an intense blast of magical 
cold fills the room. All creatures in the vault at that time 
must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 
36 (8d8) cold damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 
A detect magic spell reveals the secret to disabling 
the trap: a tiny magical glyph is inscribed in the middle 
of the ceiling. lf this glyph is dispelled with a success­
ful casting of dispel magic (DC 16), the trap ceases 
to function. 
C28. WINE CELLAR 
This cellar contains the following features: 
• The cast wall is lin ed with nearly thirty casks of wine. 
• A faint draft comes from the south end of the win e 
cellar. The draft betrays the location of a secret door. 
The servants rarely spend much time here, since the 
cellar is unlic and cold. Characters feel a strange sense 
of foreboding here. 
Secret Door. A faded holy symbol of Siamorphe, a 
silver chalice bearing a golden sun symbol. is paint ed 
on the south wall. If the sun symbol is pushed. the wall 
grinds open. revealing area C29 beyond. A character 
who searches the wall automatically detects the secret 
door and can, with a successful DC I 0 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check, figure out how to open it. 
C29. SECRETVAULT 
Most of the Cassalanters' wealth is tied up in invest­
ments, but the family keeps a stack of twenty 5-pound 
silver trade bars (worth 25 gp each) here for emergen­
cies. At the back of the vault is a dark staircase that de­
scends 30 feet to the temple of Asmodeus (area Al). 
Found ers' Day. ln addition to the treasure noted 
above. the vault contains five hundred sacks contain­
ing 1,000 gp each (liquidated family assets). If the 
Cassalanters were successful in looting the Vault of 
Dragon s, the vault contains an additional five hundred 
sacks (the sum total of the treasure taken from the 
vault), for a total of 1.000,000 gp. The gold remains 
here until it's taken down to the temple (see "Special 
Events," page 130). 
TEMPLE OF ASMODEUS 
Beneath Cassalanter Villa lies a secret temple where 
Victoro leads a cult that worships Asmodeus. Cult 
members include evil -mind ed nobles as well as deluded 
commoners lured by the prospect of wealth and status. 
The entire cult gathers in the temple at midnight on the 
first day of every tenday for a dark mass. During these 
ceremonies. they pledge their devotion to the Lord of 
the Nine Hells, call out the names of their enemies, and 
beseech Asmodeus to visit ruin upon thei r foes. They 
also drink wine. share gossip, and offer the occasional 
sacrifice. For the Cassalanters, these events are oppor­
tunities to Haunt their power and impose their will on 
their lessers. 
CHAPTER b I lll!LL OP A SUMMER 