TEMPLE FEATURES 
The foJJowing general features apply to the temple : 
• Rooms are dim ly lit by flickering cand les placed in 
tall, slender, wrought-iron candlesticks. 
• Ceilings in rooms are 10 feet high unless noted 
otherwise. Passages are 8 feet tall, with 7-foot­
tall doorways . 
• Doors are made of iron-banded wood. 
• Cultists who aren't members of the nobility wear 
cheap red robes, devil masks, and wooden amulets 
that bea r the symbol of Asmodeus . 
AREAS OF THE TEMPLE 
The following a reas correspond to the labels on map 
6.2. The temple is connected to Cassa lanter Villa by a 
staircase that connects with area Al. Also, an under­
ground stream (area A9) leads away from the temple's 
lower level and eventually lets out in the Mud Flats 
northwest ofWaterdeep. 
Changes to the temp le that occur during cult gather­
ings are noted in the "Cult Gathering" sections. 
Al. HALL OF THE DAMNED 
The features of this hall are readi ly apparent: 
• In the middle of the hall, a spiral staircase descends 
20 feet to the lower level (area A3). 
• The faint sound of chanting is audible coming from a 
corridor to the northwest. 
• To the south are three cells with iron-banded wooden 
doors. A small, barred window is embedded in each 
door at the height of a human's eye. The cell doors 
face a stone pillar. Hanging from a hook on the pillar 
is a ring of keys. 
Cells. When the Cassalanters decide to sacrifice hu­
mans in their rituals, they lure homeless Waterdavians 
to their estate and confine them in these cells . The keys 
to unlock the doors hang from the stone pillar. A lock 
can be picked by a character who makes a successful 
DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. All three 
cells are currently empty. 
Chanting. The sound is that of a praye r to Asmodeus 
being recited by the cultists in area A7. 
A2. BALCON1ES 
Two crumbling balconies with stone ra ilings overlook 
the temple's ceremonial hall (area A7). The distance to 
the floor below is 20 feet. 
Collapsing Floor. The balcony floors have weakened 
with age. Any Medium or larger creature that steps onto 
a 5-foot-square marked Con the map must make a DC 
15 Dexterity saving throw as the floor crumbles and 
falls away, leaving a gaping hole. On a failed save, the 
creature falls 20 feet and lands prone on the floor below 
(area A7) amid stone debris. On a success, the creature 
avoids the fall by leaping to an adjacent, unoccupied 
space. The sound of the collapsing floor can be heard 
throughout the temple. 
A3. ANTERIOR VESTIBULE 
The spiral staircase from area Al ends at this chamber . 
CHAPTER 6 I HELL OF A SUMMER 
Asmode usPortrait. Mounted on the back wall of an 
alcove to the north is an 18-foot-high , 9-foot-wide por­
trait in a gilded frame. The picture depicts a striking ly 
handsome and impeccably dressed bea rded man with 
small horns protruding from his forehead . He carries a 
ruby-tipped cane. Any character who succeeds on a DC 
10 Intelligence (Religion) check recognizes the figure 
as Asmodeus . 
Cult Gathering. During cult gatherings, a bearded 
devil guards each of the doors leading to area A7. 
A4. FAM I LY C RYPT 
Twelve stone sarcophagi are packed into deep recesses 
in the walls. The plaster lid of each sarcophagus is 
carved in the likeness of a noble clutch ing a cha lice that 
bears a symbol of the sun. The sarcophagi contain noth­
ing but dust and bones. 
The spirits of several dead members of the Cassa­
lanter family are bound to this crypt. They manifest as 
three dark, vaporous spec ters plus a ghos t that looks 
like the insubstantial image of a handsome, clean­
shaven man of knight ly bear ing clad in plate armor. 
These undead attack any living creatures but can't leave 
the crypt or approach within 5 feet of any creature that 
wears a holy symbol of Asmodeus. 
The ghost is all that remains of Caladorn Cassa lanter, 
a former Masked Lord and hero of Waterdeep. The 
ghost halts its attack and calls off the specters if a char­
acter wea rs or presents a holy symbol of Siamorphe. 
After it is shown such a symbol, the ghost guides charac­
ters to its personal crypt (area A4a). 
A4A. CALADORN
1
S C RYPT 
A dusty stone sarcophagus occupies this crypt, its 
plaster lid carved in the likeness of a handsome, clean­
shaven nobleman clutching a chalice engraved with the 
symbol of the sun. The likeness resemb les the ghost of 
Caladorn Cassa lanter (see above). 
Treasure . Caladorn's bones have turned to dust, but 
his suit of +1 plate armor rema ins. Also lying in the dust 
is a mace of disruption. If Caladorn's ghost is present 
when one or both magic items are removed from the 
sarcophagus, it asks , "Do you vow to use these items 
to defeat the forces of darkness?" An answer in the 
affirmative is sufficient to lay the ghost to rest. Before 
vanishi ng for good, it says, "Use the mace to destroy the 
effigy of evil incarnate. End the corruption to restore my 
family's honor." (The "effigy" is the statue of Asmodeus 
in area A7.) 
A4B. EMPTY C RYPT 
This crypt contains nothing but dust and cobwebs. 
A5 . CULTISTS' CHAMBER 
This room has the following features: 
• Six wooden cots sta nd aga inst the north and 
south wal ls. 
The west wall is carved with four bas-reliefs of 
pit fiends. 
Tired cultists sleep here after ceremonies, particularly if 
they drank too much wine. 