of this app roach is that characters can choose to go 
quietly or resist. The drawback is that the encounter 
might devolve into a fight-or-flight situation, leading to 
one or more characters becoming fugitives. If the party 
includes one or more charact ers who aren't lawfuJ, such 
an outcome is likely. To mitigate this drawback, you 
might allow fugitive characters to forge alliances with 
NPCs who can help clear their names. 
If the threat of a rrest becomes tedious, you can sw itch 
to the second approach, which is to merely inform the 
players that one or more characters have been a rrested. 
You can descr ibe the arrest , the subsequent detention, 
and the events leading up to the trial. The drawback to 
this approach is that player characters have no control 
over the situation. (This sense of helplessness has the 
virtue of being realistic, if not fun.) To mitigate this 
drawback, you might allow characters to make ability 
checks to influence the outcome; for example, a success­
ful Charisma (Persuasion) check might enable a charac­
ter to bribe an official or sow enough doubt in the mind 
of a magistrate to have the case thrown out. 
NAMING NPCs 
Important NPCs in the adventure are given names, but 
many of the secondary NPCs aren't named. Xanathar's 
Guide to Everything contains an appendix of tables you 
can use to randomly generate names for human and non­
human NPCs if you have trouble coming up with names 
on your own. 
I NTRODUCTION 
CHARACTER CREATION 
If your players are creating 1st-level characters for this 
adventure, conside r setting aside the first game session 
for character creation. That way, the players can flesh 
out their adventuring party together and come up with 
reasons why their characters are friends. 
BRINGING THE PARTY TOGETHER 
The Yawning Portal is a popular adventurers' hangout. 
Unless you have a better idea. assume that the charac­
ters arc familiar with the establishment and have met 
there before. If any of the characters are new to the city, 
they can be drawn to the Yawning Portal by its reputa­
tion or summoned there by Volo. 
To make the Yawning Portal feel like a familiar, wel­
coming place, give the players a copy of the Yawning 
Portal Familiar Faces handout in appendix C and allow 
each player to select one NPC as a friendly acquain­
tance. Additiona l information about these NPCs can be 
found at the end of this introduction. 
BUYING EQUIPMENT AT lST LEVEL 
All the equipment in chapter 5 of the Player's Handbook 
is available for purchase in Waterdeep at normal prices. 
CHARACTER BACKGROUNDS 
Players looking for background options beyond those 
described in the Player's Handbook can find several ap-