MAP 6.2: TEMPLE OF AS MOOEUS 
Secret Door. Behind one of the bas-reliefs is a secret 
door, which can be detected with a successful DC 13 
Wisdom (Perception) check. Pushing against the sculp­
ture causes a secret door to swing open into area A6. 
A6. SECRET VESTRY 
This room is hidden behind two secret doors that aren't 
disguised on the inside, where a stone knob on each 
door allows it to be pulled open with ease . The room 
contains the following features: 
• Against the south wall sta nd two black wardrobes 
with nine-pointed stars carved into their doors. 
A pair of tall, slender mirrors are mounted on the west 
wall, their stone frames carved with serpents. 
• Stacked in the middle of the room are six casks of 
wine used for cuJt celebrations . 
Each wardrobe contains five comp lete outfits of cult 
regalia s ized for adult humans: red robes, devil masks, 
and wooden amulets shaped in the symbol of Asmodeus. 
Cult Gathering. An hour before a cult gathering, five 
human cultists are here donning their regalia. 
A7. CEREMONIAL HALL 
This hall has a 30-foot-high vaulted ceiling and a pair of 
20-foot-high balconies (see area A2) overlooki ng it. Its 
other features as follows: 
• Rows of flickering candles in iron candlesticks form a 
pathway to a 30-foot-tall stone statue at the west end 
l square = 5 feet 
of the hall. The statue depicts a smi ling, bearded man 
of diabolical bent, with small horns protruding from 
his brow and cloven hooves instead of feet. At the base 
of the statue, clutched in a stone claw erupting from 
the floor, is a 3-foot-deep, 9-foot-diamete r stone bowl 
filled with crackling flames. 
• Three human cultists wearing red robes, deviJ masks, 
and wooden holy symbols of Asmodeus kneel before 
the statue, feverishly chanting an infernal hymn. 
(During a cult gathering, the number of cu ltists pres­
ent increases dramatically.) 
• The walls around the statue are covered by large 
tapestries that depict scenes of human debauchery. 
(Beh ind the north tapestry is a rough-hewn passage 
that leads to area A9.) 
The Cassalanters' ritual to save Terenzio and Elzerina 
plays out here (see "Special Events," page 130). 
Cult Gathering. If the cult is here in force, thirty 
human cultists stand in neat rows before the statue, 
chanting to Asmodeus with wooden goblets in hand 
while their leader, Victoro Cassalante r (see appendix 
B), tosses offerings into the bowl. Rough ly half of the 
cultists are members of the nobility; the rest are Water­
davian rabble brought into the cult to fill out the ranks. 
Standing around the perimeter are Willi fort Crowelle, 
Tissina Khyret, Laiba Rosse, and]andar Chergoba (see 
"Head Servants," page 116). Their job is to make sure 
the other cultists behave themselves while Ammalia 
CHAPTER 6 I HELL OF A SUMMER 