Cassala nter (see appendix B) walks gracefully through 
the crowd with a golden decanter, ceremonially pour ing 
wine into the cultists' goblets for toasting to the Lord of 
the Nine Hells. Lady Cassalanter's six imps (see area 
C25) are perched invisibly on the statue. 
Devil Statue and Sacrificia l Bowl. The statue once 
depicted Siamorphe, but the Cassalanters used stone 
shape spells to recast it into an image of their dread 
lord, Asmodeus. The massive bowl at the foot of the 
statue was also fashioned with stone shape spells; it 
radiates a strong aura of conjuration magic when sub­
jected to a detect magic spell or similar magic. Magical 
names erupt from the bowl as long as it remains intact 
Any creature that enters the A a mes or starts its turn in 
them takes 4dl0 fire damage. A creature reduced to 0 
hit points by this damage turns to ashes. Nonmagical 
objects tossed into the flames are destroyed. 
If the statue is struck by a mace of disruption, it cracks 
and falls to pieces, shattering the bowl as it tumbles 
down. Any member of the cu It who witnesses the de­
struction of the statue takes J 1 (2d 10) psychic damage. 
Secret Door. The secret door leading to area A6 can 
be found with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Percep­
tion) check. Pushing on that section of wall causes it to 
swing open. 
Stream. Flowing behind the statue is a stream 
that enters and exits through 1-foot-high, 2-foot-wide 
arched culverts. 
A8. STORAGE CLOSET 
Against the back wall of this closet sta nds an unlocked 
cabinet with a black rug laid out before it. The cabinet 
contains a golden decanter (worth 125 gp) and shelves 
holding wooden wine goblets. 
Cult Gathering. The cabinet is empty. as the decanter 
and goblets are being put to use in area A7. 
A9. STREAM AND POOL 
An underground stream flows through the west side of 
the temple and into a 5-foot-deep pool here before mean­
dering northwest and emerging in the Mud Flats. 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
If the Cassalanters fail to obtain the Stone ofGolorr, the 
following events don't come to pass. As a consequence. 
Terenzio and Elzerina are transformed into lemures 
as their souls are forfeit ten days after Founders' 
Day. Shattered by their failure and their loss. Victoro 
and Ammalia Cassalanter vow to destroy those who 
thwarted them . 
G ETTING TH E GOLD 
This event can occur only on Founders' Day or sooner. 
Armed with the Stone ofGo!orr and the keys to un­
lock the Vault of Dragons, Victoro Cassalanter enters 
the vault, uses a disguise se/fspell to appear as Lord 
Dagult Neverember, and tricks Aurinax the gold dragon 
into relinquishing the gold. A dozen House Cassalanter 
guards disguised as members of the City Guard stuff 
the gold into sacks while a dozen more hauJ the sacks 
CH.\PTJ:.R 6 J HELL OF A SUMMI R 
to a pair of waiting carriages for safe transport back to 
Cassalanter Villa. Each sack holds 1,000 gp, and each 
carriage can hold fifty sacks (50.000 gp) at a time. Get­
ting the gold from the Vault of Dragons to Cassalanter 
Villa takes ten round trips (five per carriage) and the bet­
ter part of a day. Three invisible imps accompany each 
carriage. which is driven by a bearded devil wearing a 
hal and a high.collared cape to conceal its true nature. 
Upon arriva l at Cassalanter Villa, each ca1Tiage is met 
by a dozen guards in House Cassalanter livery, who un­
load the sacks of gold and place them in area C29. 
DAY OF T HE D AMNED 
This event occurs only if the Cassalanters obtain the 
gold from the Vault of Dragons. 
Ammalia Cassalanter hosts a grand party on Found­
ers' Day that begins in the early afternoon and ends 
at midnight. Wealthy guests begin to arrive in the late 
afternoon and gather inside the villa, away from the sun 
and heat, while one hundred of Waterdeep's poorest 
residents - most brought from the Field Ward- gather 
under pavilions set up on the lawn. Hired actors dressed 
as Waterdeep's founders parade around, and bards play 
lively tunes. No one suspects that the food in the pavil­
ion tents has been Laced with midnight tears - a poison 
that will slay the impoverish ed guests at the stroke of 
midnight. Ammalia is immune lo poison and thus par­
takes freely of the delicious food. Wealthy guests who 
remain holed up in Cassalanter Villa eat and drink at 
separate tables and are spared a grisly end. 
An hour before midnight, the entertainers disperse as 
Ammalia begins making toasts lo her wealthy guests, 
turning them into unwitting accomplices by virtue of 
their presence and thus ensuring their silence. Mean­
while, house guards prevent any of the rabble from leav­
ing, forcibly detaining anyone who tries to flee. Unless 
the characters prevent the poor folk from eating the 
tainted food, those attendees consume the poison and 
perish at the stroke of midnight. 
While Ammalia plays host, Victoro instructs his 
cultists to remove the sacks of gold from House Cas­
salanter's vault (area C29) and hurl them into the sacrifi­
cial bowl (area A7). They finish shortly before midnight. 
At the stroke of midnight, as the poison does its work, 
Ammalia keeps an eye on her wealthy guests and orders 
Tessina Khyret to notify Victoro that the deed is done. 
Standing before the statue of Asmodeus in the temple, 
Victoro summons a barbed devil and informs it that 
payment has been made in full. The devil declares (in 
Infernal) that the payment is "satisfactory" and informs 
Victoro that the souls ofTcrenzio and Elzer ina will not 
be taken to the Nine Hells. It then disappears whence it 
came, leaving the Cassalanters to bask in their triumph. 
After the party, in the dark hours of morning, the 
corpses of the dead are cast into the fiery bowl in area 
A7, leaving no evidence of foul play. In the days and 
months that follow, Victoro and Ammalia use threats 
of diabolical retribution to silence witnesses and wield 
their political clout to quash criminal investigations. 