CHAPTER 7: MAESTRO'S FALL 
ARLAXLE, THE LEADER OP BRECAN D'AERTHE, 
sees membership in the Lords' Alliance as 
his path to power beyond Luskan. As the 
secret lord of a city with an unsavory repu┬ş
tation, he has had a hard time getting a seat 
at the table with other cities of the North 
when it comes to trade and defense of the 
region. Thus, he plans to use the stolen gold 
to bargain with Laeral Silverhand for inclusion in the 
alliance, and to oust Neverwinter and its lord DaguJt 
Neverember - Jarlaxle's fiercest political opponent - from 
the group. 
FACING jARLAXLE 
As the characters investigate the Sea Maidens Faire, 
they could run into Jarlaxle, especially if they take a 
kick-in-the-door approach and storm the vessels of the 
traveling carnival. When Jarlaxle learns that the char┬ş
acters are aboard one of his ships, he arranges to meet 
with them in the guise of Zardoz Zord. If they refuse, 
Jarlaxle orders his crew to cast the characters over┬ş
board - or takes care of the job himself if he must. 
If he thinks the adventurers can be trusted, jarlaxle 
proposes that they join his search for the Vault of Drag┬ş
ons. He intends to return the gold to Laeral Silverhand, 
less 5,000 gp for the characters in exchange for their 
help. He offers another 5,000 gp for their help in recov┬ş
ering the dragonstaff of Ahghairon. If the characters 
accept,jarlaxle upholds his end of the agreement. Once 
the gold is secure, he gives the characters their cut. 
If the characters don't agree to jarlaxle's terms, or if 
they assault him, he tries to knock them unconscious 
and leave them without clothes or equipment in a gutter 
in the Dock Ward. He stores their equipment in areajl6 
aboard the Eyecatcher, with the exception of any magic 
items. Those be stashes in area U4 aboard the Scarlet 
Marpenoth, his secret submarine. 
In the unlikely event tbatjarlaxle is killed, Bregan 
D'aerthe raises him from the dead within a tenday. Once 
he's back in action, he tries to recover any gear that was 
stolen from him. 
DISRUPT I NG j A RLAXLE'S OPERATIO N 
Characters can hinder Jarlaxle in the ways described in 
the following two subsections. 
DESTROYTHE FIGUREHEADS 
The figureheads onjarlaxle's ships (areaJ8) create illu┬ş
sions around drow crew members, making them appear 
human. If a figurehead is destroyed, the drow on that 
ship remain belowdecks to ensure that they don't draw 
unwanted attention. 
SINK OR STEAL A VESSEL 
If the characters sink or steal one of his sailing ships 
or the Scarlet Marpenoth,Jarlaxle tasks his crew mem┬ş
bers with finding out what went wrong. In the case 
of a sunken ship, such wanton destruction could also 
involve the City Watch, especially if the act results in 
people drowning. 
CHAPTER 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 