S EA M A IDE NS FAI RE 
jarlaxle Baenre's seafaring carnival travels up and 
down the Sword Coast in three ships. The Eyecatcher, 
jarlaxle's flagship, is ostentatious. Mounted underneath 
it is the Scarlet Marpenoth, a submarine of Lantanese 
design. The second ship, the Hear/breaker, is primarily 
used to transport perform ers, strang e crea tures, and 
wagons. The third ship, the Hellraiser, transports musi­
cians and decorative floats. The Heartbreaker and the 
Hellraiser are presently docked. while the Eyecatcher is 
anchored in the harbor. 
All three ships are crewed by drow who are magically 
disguised to appear human. Despite their disguises, the 
drow still have the SunHght Sensitivity trait. 
APPROACHING THE SHIPS 
The Heartbreak er and the Hellraiser are docked across 
from each other at the same pier in the Dock Ward. The 
characters need only walk up a ramp from the pier to 
areajl on either ship. The pier is so busy that no one 
takes notice of the characters until they are on a vessel. 
jarlaxl e's flagship is anchored in Deepwater Harbor, a 
mile away from his other ships. To reach the Eyecatcher, 
the characters must travel there by using anothe r vessel, 
by swimming, or by flying. If the charac ters approach 
in a vessel known to the crew. such as a rowboat from 
another of jarlaxle 's ships, the characters arouse no 
suspicion until they are seen on deck. The crew of the 
Eyecatcher crew sends word to jarlaxl e immediately if 
the characters approach in an unknown vessel. 
If the characte rs approach the Eyecatcher in an un­
derwater vehicle, such as Grinda Garloth's apparatus 
of Kwa/ish (see chapter 4), the character piloting must 
s ucceed on a DC 12 Dexterity (Stealth) check to keep 
the vehicle from being spotted by the crew of the Scarlet 
Marpenoth. If the characters approach by swimming, 
each of them must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check to avoid being spotted by the crew of the 
Eyecatcher. 
CREWS 
The characters can learn valuable information by inter­
rogating crew members and carnival performers. 
SH I P CAPTAINS 
Although Zardoz Zord Uarlaxle Baenre) commands the 
Heel, each ship has its own captain: a Bregan D'aertbe 
drow mage disguised as a slender, well-dressed human. 
These captains know of jarlaxle's plans. They communi­
cate with each other and with jarlaxle by way of sending 
spe lls, which they prepare instead of fly. 
Velgos Ephezzrin captains the Hellraiser in the guise 
of a human named Fergus Crabwater. He enjoys wine a 
little too much, and characters have advantage on Cha­
risma checks made to interact with him during a meal. 
Tylan Ilueph captains the Heartbreaker as a human 
named Klarr Besham. He's a humorless taskmaster 
whose tarantula familiar is always on his shoulder. 
Llorath Pham captains the Eyecalcher as a human 
named Tarwind Arryhook. He loves games of chance 
and can't resist a good wager. 
CHAPTl!R 7 I MAESTRO 'S FALL 
A successful DC 15 Charisma (Deception or Persua­
sion) check and the mention of Zardoz Zord's name is 
enough lO gain an audience with a ship captain. If the 
characters capture one of the captains and succeed on 
a DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) check, they learn the 
following information by asking the right questions: 
• "The Sea Maidens Faire and all its ships are under 
the command of Captain Zardoz Zord of Luskan." (A 
ship capta in won't divulge Zord's true identity unless 
magically compe lled to do so.) 
• "Zord has a cabin aboard the Eyecatcher and spends a 
lot of Lime there with Margo Verida and Khafeyta Mur­
zan, two of the Faire 's star performers." 
• "A year ago, the Sea Maidens Faire visited the island 
nation of Lantan, where Zord acquired a submarine 
called the Scarlet Marpenoth. The submarine is 
mounted underneath the Eyecatcher." 
"Zord has operatives searching for an artifact called 
the Stone ofGolorr, which leads to a place called the 
Vault of Dragons." (For security, the captains aren't 
kept informed as to the mission's progress.) 
• "Zord has drow spies in Waterdeep - Fel'rekt Lafeen, 
Krebbyg Masq'il'yr. and Soluun Xibrindas. All carry 
Lantanese firearms." 
• "Our disguises are powered by a magical figurehead 
fixed to the fore of each ship." 
SAILORS 
The Eyecatcher, the Heartbreaker, and the Hellraiser 
are crewed by twenty sailors each: three drow elite 
warriors (mates) and seventeen drow , all magically dis­
guised as slender humans while aboard their vessel. All 
are loyal members of Bregan D'aerthe, and all know that 
Zardoz Zord isjarlaxle Baenre in disguise. They know 
nothing about the Scarlet Marpenoth or jarlaxle's plans. 
The crew has orders not to fraternize with strangers 
or guests. Characters who question crew members can 
learn the following: 
• "Zardoz Zord is master of the Sea Maidens Faire. If 
you want to meet him, talk to a ship captain." (A sailor 
won't divulge Zord's true identity unless magically 
compe lled to do so.) 
• "The Sea Maidens Faire is based out ofLuskan." 
CARNIES 
Most of the carnival performers and workers are human 
commoners trained to perform a handful of tasks or 
stunts. (Pe rformers have proficiency in the Performance 
skill.) They're kept in the dark about most things, but 
they're not oblivious. With a successful DC 10 Charisma 
check, a cha racter can cajole or trick a carny into reveal­
ing one of the following pieces of information: 
• "Zardoz Zord uses magic to get from the Eyecatcher 
to the other boats. I've never seen him in a rowboat." 
• ·'The sailors communicate with each other using 
odd hand signals." (Members of Bregan D'aerthe use 
Drow Sign Language.) 
• "All the sailors have an aversion to sunlight:' 
• ''Have you noticed the sailors have the slightest hint of 
an Elvish accent?" 
• "All the crew members are men. Very odd." 