D ISCOVE RI NG THE DROW 
Any chara cter who spends l hour observing a ship's 
crew can make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
With a successfu l check, the character notices that most 
crew memb ers speak Common with an Elvish accent 
and exchange hand signals when they think no one is 
looking. A drow cha racter recognizes the hand signals 
as Drow Sign Language. 
The changes wrought by the magic of the ships' figure­
heads (see areaj8) fail to hold up to physical inspe ction, 
meaning that chara cters who interact with crew mem­
bers have a chan ce to notice the illusion. For example, a 
character who grabs one of the sailors by the ear would 
quickly realize by touch that the ea r is pointed. not 
round ed as it appears. Additionally, any drow character 
who boards one of these sh ips instantly takes on the 
illusory form of a human of the same gender, height, and 
weight, because of the magic of the sh ip's figurehead. 
SH I P FEATU RES 
Each shi p has the stat istics of a sailing ship (see the 
Airborne and Waterborne Vehicles table in chapter 5 of 
the Dungeon Master's Guide) as well as the features de­
scribed in the following s ubsections. 
ALARMS 
If intrud ers are detected or a fight breaks out on one 
of the ships, the ent ire crew (one drow mage captain, 
three drow elite warrior s, and seve nteen drow ) mo-
bilizes to comba t the threat. The drow prefer to take 
capt ives or render enemies unconscious rather than kill 
them. Captives are thrown in the brig (area]15) until 
]arlaxl e decides what to do with them, and their gear is 
stowed in the armory (area]l6). 
CElLINGS 
Cabins, holds, and passag eways have 8-foot-high ceil­
ings with 6-foot-high doorways connecting them . 
DOORS 
Unless otherwise noted, door s are made of wood. A 
door's lock ca n be picked by a character who makes a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity chec k using thieves' tools, 
or a door can be forced open by a charac ter who makes 
a successful DC 15 Strength (Athlet ics) check. A ship's 
capta in has keys to all locked doors aboard his vessel. 
ELEVATOR PLATFORMS 
Each s hip is equipped with an elevator platform that can 
be lowered and raised with a lever to make loading and 
unloading cargo eas ier. When not in use, this platform 
stays in the lowest cargo hold of eac h ship. See the de­
scriptions of the cargo holds for more information. 
LIGHTING 
Areas belowdecks are brightly lit by hanging lanterns. 
RIGGING 
Rigging can be climbed without an ab ility check . 
CHAPTER 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 