AREAS OF THE SHI P S 
The Eyecatcher, the Heartbreaker, and the Hellraiser 
have the same general configuration and occupants, cor­
responding to map 7.L Exceptions are noted in an area's 
description and on the map. 
Jl. MAIN DECK 
Three sailors (drow) and a mate (drow elite wa rrior ) 
are on deck at all times. If the characters board the sh ip 
and ask to speak with the captain, the mate asks their 
business before even thinking about disturbing hjm. 
jolly Boats. Four rowboats are stacked on top of each 
other on this deck . Ropes and pulleys are used to hoist 
these boats in and out of the water. 
J2 . STORAGE 
The smell of tar permeates this cluttered cabin, which 
contains the following features: 
• Barrels of tar are secured with nets to the starboard 
wall below mounted tools. 
• Against the port wall, tight rolls of white canvas are 
stacked on top of each other and secured with rope . 
J3 . MATES' CABIN 
This cabin has the following features: 
• Twin hammocks hang perpendicular to one another. 
Two off-duty mates {drow elite warrio rs) relax in 
the hammocks . 
Three walnut chests sit under the hammocks. The 
chests are unlocked. 
Treasur e. Each chest holds two sets of common 
clothes, a waterskin filled with wine, and a pouch con­
taining 3d6 gp and 4d10 sp. 
J4. CREW CABINS 
Each of these cabins holds four han1mocks. One off-duty 
sailor (drow) rests in each cabin. 
J5. GALLEY 
Heat and savory scents burst from this cramped cabin, 
which contains the following features: 
A busy cook (common er) works a frying pan with one 
hand and stirs a pot with the other over a small stove. 
Dirty dishes are stacked in a washbasin. 
• A table holds foods in various states of preparation. 
The cook is too busy to speak with characters, and is 
quick to holler in alarm if attacked, drawing the atten­
tion of the crew. 
]6. PANTRY 
Secured to the walls are racks of cooking ingredients, 
including jars of spices, sacks of A our, and casks of lard. 
J7. D INING CABIN 
The crew dines here throughout the day. At any given 
time , the cabin contains the following: 
• Six sailors (drow) are enjoying a meal. 
• Aboard the Heartbreaker or the Hellraiser, the sailors 
are joined by ld4 carnies (commoners ). 
CHAPTER. 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 
• Furnishings include a table, ten stoo ls, and two oak 
cabinets containing dishes, tankards, and utensils. 
]8. FORECASTLE 
The forecastle is withi n sight of the sai lors on the main 
deck (areajl), the aft castle lower deck (areaj9), and the 
aft cast le upper deck (areajll). 
Figureh ead. A gilded wooden figurehead of a female 
elf with flowing hair sticks out from the sh ip's prow, 
reaching forth with both hands. Since Lhe figurehead is 
unpainted, there's no way to tell that it depicts a drow, 
but a character who inspects the figurehead closely and 
succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check no­
tices a tiny embossed spide r on its forehead. 
A detect magic spell or similar magic reveals an aura 
of illusion magic around the figurehead - the effect that 
makes every drow aboard the ship appear as a human . 
A drow's gender, height, and weight are unchange d; the 
illusion affects only appearance, not voice or manner­
isms. Casting dispel magic on a disguised drow causes 
the illusion around it to wink out only for a moment . An 
antimagic field suppresses the figurehead's magic within 
the field's area. Destroying the figurehead ends the ef­
fect throughout the ship. A figurehead has AC 15, 50 hit 
points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. 
J9. AFT CASTLE LOWER DECK 
This deck has the following features: 
• Two sailors (drow) are here at all times. 
Stairs to port and starboard climb to the aft castle up­
per deck (areajll) and the captain's wheel. 
Anchor . The ship's anchor is accessed from this deck. 
It can be raised or lowered by one creature in 10 rounds 
(1 minute), by two creatures in 5 rounds, by three crea­
tures in 3 rounds, or by four creatures in 1 round. 
JlO. CAPTAIN'S CABIN 
Regardless of which ship the characters are on, this op­
ulent cabin contains the following features: 
• Stylish purple drapes cover the large windows that 
look out over the harbor. 
To one side of a central pillar rests a comfortable bed, 
its oak headboard carved to resemble a kraken. An 
oak dining table surrounded by six high-backed chairs 
rests on the opposite side of the centra l pillar . 
• Other furnishings include a glass-doored cabinet con­
taining shelves of books, a wooden trunk sealed with 
a padlock, and a small writing desk. 
Capta in. Each ship's captain {drow mage) can usually 
be found here, with a nimblewri gbt (see appendix B) 
acting as an attendant and bodyguard. 
A captain is happy to meet with characters who ask 
to speak with him, mostly to gauge whether they pose 
a threat. If the characters are polite, the captain invites 
them to join him for a meal. If the characters grow tire­
some or threatening, he commands them to leave the 
ship at once, sounding an alarm if they refuse. 
Fastened to each captain's belt is a ring holding a 
number of keys. One key unlocks the trunk in this cabin; 
other keys unlock any locked doors on the captain's ship. 