Book Cabinet. Each captain keeps a modest collection 
of mundan e books. Each hides his spellbook in a secret 
space under the bottom shelf, which can be found with 
a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. The 
spellbook contains the following spells: cone of cold, con­
trol water, counterspe/J, detect magic, fireball, fly, greater 
invisibility, ice storm, mage armor, magic missile, misty 
step, Rary's telepathic bond, sending, shield, suggestion, 
thunderwave, water breathing, and web. 
Locked Trunk. A successful DC 20 Dexterity check 
by a cha racter using thieves' tools opens the padlock, or 
it can be broken off with a successful DC 20 Strengt h 
(Athletics) check. The trunk contains folded clothes, 250 
gp in a sack, ld6 pearls (worth 100 gp each) in a silk 
pouch, a potion of water breathing, and a bottle of excel­
lent wine (worth 25 gp), bearing a label in the s hape of 
an eye patch and the name "One-Eyedjax" in Common. 
Jll. AFT CASTLE UPPER DECK 
This highest deck of the ship is within sight of the fore­
cast le (areaJ8), the main deck (areaJl), and the aft cas­
tle lower deck (area ]9). It has the following features: 
The sh ip's wheel stands atop the deck. 
• Two sailo rs (drow) are stationed here at all times. 
Wheel. If the ship is sailing with a full crew, a charac­
ter who has proficiency with water vehicles can stand at 
the wheel and steer the vessel. 
J12. UPPER CARGO HOLD 
This hold contains the following features: 
• Large grilled doors in the ceiling open to allow goods 
to be moved to and from this hold using the cargo eleva­
tor. A 15-foot-by-10-foot section of floor opens to reveal 
the lower cargo hold (areaJ17 aboa rd the Eyecatcher or 
the Hell raiser; area ]19 aboard the Heartbreaker). 
Crates and barrels stacked to the ceiling are tied down 
to ensure that they don't move. These containers bold 
food and water for the crew and the carnies. 
Cargo Elevator. To activate an elevator platform, a 
creature must stand on the platform and use an action 
to pull a lever up or down. The platform can't be raised 
higher than the main deck (areaJl) or lowered deeper 
than a sh ip's lowest cargo hold. 
The trapdoor in the Boor opens when the ca rgo eleva­
tor is raised. If the platform is raised to areaJl, the trap­
door rema ins open until the elevator platform r eturns to 
this area or areajl 7 Q19 on the Heartbreaker). 
J13. HEAD 
The reek of urine fills the cramped head. Privies - each 
little more than a bench seat with a hole open to the wa­
ter below-are this room's only features. 
Jl4. CARNIES' CABINS 
Eight narrow cabins are fitted with hammocks, each 
of which holds a resting carnival performer or worker 
(commoner ). Carn ies call for help when they are con­
fronted by intruders and fight only in self-defense. 
CHAPTER 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 
jl5. BRIG 
A door made of crisscrossing iron bars and fitted with 
a sturdy lock seals off this cabin, whose only feature is 
a chamber pot. The captain carries the key to the door. 
The lock can be picked by a character who makes a suc­
cessful DC 17 Dexterity check using thieves' tools (made 
with disadvantage from inside the cell). A successful DC 
23 Strength (Athletics) check forces the door open. The 
door has AC 19, a damage threshold of 10, 27 hit points, 
and immunily to poison and psychic damage. 
jailed Sailor. There's a 25 percent chance that a 
sailor (drow) is being held in the brig after punching a 
crewmate during an argument. 
J16. ARMORY 
The drow store their weapons and armor here while the 
ship is at sea. If the cha racters are captured and stripped 
of their equ ipment, their nonmagical belongings are 
stowed here. The cabin has the following features: 
• Empty weapon racks and armor hooks line the walls. 
• Stairs lead down into the ship's belly. 
Safe (Eyecatcher Only). The armory aboard the Eye­
catcher also features a 750-pound cast iron safe with a 
combination lock.jarlaxle and his lieutenants (Fel'rekt 
Lafeen, Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, aod Soluun Xibrindas) know 
the comb ination: 1- 20-59. A characte r can pick the lock 
with a successful DC 25 Dexterity (Investigat ion) check 
using thieves' tools. Each attempt takes 1 minute. A 
knock spell or similar magic also opens the safe, which 
contains three pistols, twelve leather packets of smoke­
powder, three leather pouches containing twenty bullets 
each, and 250 gp in a sack . 
Stairs. The stairs lead to areaj17 on the Eyecatcher 
or the Hellraiser, or to areaJ20 on the Heartbreaker. 
J17. LOWER CARGO HOLD 
Eyecatcher and Hel!raiser only 
The fantastical floats of the Sea Maidens Faire are bro­
ken down and kept in the lower cargo hold of the Rel/­
raiser, while the Eyecatcher holds pieces of broken and 
experimental floats. (See areaj19 for a description of 
the Heartbreaker's lower cargo hold.) 
Cargo Elevator. If the cargo elevator platform is low­
ered to this area while creatures are in the 15-foot-by-
10-foot space where the platform lands, each of those 
creatures must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving 
throw or take 11 (2dl0) bludgeoning damage and be 
knocked prone and restrained until the platform is 
raised. A creatu re that succeeds on its saving throw 
moves to a space of its choice next to the elevator plat­
form without provoking opportunity attacks . 
Hellraiser's Hold. The hold of the Hellraiser is mostly 
cleared out on days when parades are schedu led, except 
for empty storage trunks. On other days, it contains the 
following paraphernalia: 
• Various trunks filled with musician, dance r. acrobat, 
and clown costumes 
Casks holding confetti, glitter, and body paint 
Bundles of wooden stilts (4 and 8 feet high) 
Papier-mache beholders mounted atop 10-foot poles 