propriate ones in the Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide: 
City Watch, cloistered scholar, courtier, faction agent, 
far traveler, inheritor, mercenary veteran, urban bounty 
hunter, and Waterdavian nob le. If you have access to this 
book, consider making its background options availab le 
to your players' characters. 
WATERDAVIAN NOBLE FAMILIES 
Waterdeep contains well over a hundred noble families. 
The following noble houses are fine choices for any 
character with the noble background from the Player's 
Handbook or the Waterdavian noble background from 
the Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide. 
House Amcathra. The Amcathras are a Tethyrian 
family that specializes in horse breeding and training, 
cattle ranching, wine-making. and weaponsmithing. The 
family motto is "We trample our troubles:· The family 
has a large villa in the North Ward, on the east side of 
the High Road between Hassantyr's Street and Tar­
nath Street. 
Hou se Margaster. The Margasters are an llluskan 
family whose business interests lie in land-based ship­
ping and bulk goods trading. The house also has a quiet 
history of wizardry. The family motto is "Nothing is be­
yond our grasp." The Margaster family estate is situated 
between Stabbed Sailor Alley and Shattercrock Alley in 
the North Ward. 
House Phylund. The Phylunds are a Tashlutar family 
that captures and sells monsters. Monsters that can't 
be trained as pets or guard beasts are sold to arenas 
or harvested for their meat. bones, and skins. The Phy­
lunds sponsor adventuring parties and monster-hunt­
ing expeditions, and their motto is "What you fear, we 
master." House Phylund has an estate on Copper Street, 
west of the High Road between julthoon Street and 
Trader's Way in the North Ward. 
GUILD S OF WATER DEEP 
Bakers' Guild 
Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' Guild 
Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild 
Coopers' Guild 
Council of Farmer-Grocers 
Council of Musicians, Instrument-makers, and Choristers 
Dungsweepers' Guild 
Fellowship of Bowyers and Fletchers 
Fellowship of Carters and Coachmen 
Fellowship of Innkeepers 
Fellowship of Salters, Packers, and joiners 
Fishmongers' Fellowship 
Guild of Apothecaries and Physicians 
Guild of Butchers 
Guild of Chandlers and Lamplighters 
Guild of Fine Carvers 
Guild of Glassblowers, Glaziers, and Spectacle-makers 
Guild of Stonecutters, Masons, Potters, and Tile-makers 
Guild of Trusted Pewterers and Casters 
Guild of Watermen 
jesters' Guild 
jewelers' Guild 
Hous e Rosznar. Once banished from Waterdeep for 
smuggling, slavery. and other crimes, this Tethyrian 
house bas returned and is trying to overcome its dark 
past and disgraceful reputation by focusing on legiti­
mate business ventures such as wine-making and gem 
trading. The family motto is "We fly high and stoop 
swift." Rosznar Villa is situated on ThunderstaffWay be­
tween Copper Street and Shield Street in the Sea Ward, 
west of the High Road. 
Lady Esvele Rosznar (see "The Black Viper" in appen ­
dix B) is a member of this house, though she keeps her 
mas ked identity and thieving escapades a secret. 
GUILD MEMBERSHIP 
Any characters with the guild artisan background are 
assumed to have free membership in one Waterdeep 
guild of their choice. Arcane spellcasters living in the 
city are required by law to register with the Watchful Or­
der of Magists and Protectors, so that they can be called 
on to defend the city with their magic in times of need. 
Waterdeep's most prominent guilds appear on the 
Guilds ofWaterdeep list. By law, there are no active 
thieves' guilds in Waterdeep, and the Xanatbar Guild 
isn't an actual guild but a faction (see "Factions in Wa­
terdeep," page 14). 
To join a guild, one must possess a background, a pro­
ficiency, or a status that the guild values. For examp le, a 
character with the sailor background is welcome to join 
the Master Mariners' Guild. One can practice a profes­
sion and not be a guild member, but sucb autonomy car­
ries a cost. The guilds do everything they can to entice 
new members to join and pay for membership, and they 
go out of their way to hinder independent business own­
ers, up to and including driving them out of business. A 
baker who refuses lo join the Bakers' Guild might find 
her flour supply cut off. while a wizard who refuses to 
Launderers' Guild 
League of Basket-makers and Wickerworkers 
League of Skinners and Tanners 
Loyal Order of Street Laborers 
Master Mariners' Guild 
Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths and Metalforgers 
Most Diligent League of Sail-makers and Cordwainers 
Most Excellent Order of Weavers and Dyers 
Order of Cobblers and Corvisers 
Order of Master Shipwrights 
Order of Master Tailors. Glovers, and Mercers 
Saddlers' and Harness-makers' Guild 
Scriveners', Scribes', and Clerks' Guild 
Solemn Order of Recognized Furriers and Woolmen 
Splendid Order of Armorers, Locksmiths, and Finesmiths 
Stablemasters ' and Farriers' Guild 
Stationers' Guild 
Surveyors', Map-, and Chart-makers' Guild 
Vintners', Distillers', and Brewers' Guild 
Wagon-makers' and Coach Builders' Guild 
Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors 
Wheelwrights' Guild 
INTRODUCTION 