J22. BEAST SUPPLIES 
Heartbreaker only 
Supplies and food for the creatures in areaj20 are 
stored here: 
• Haunches of meat hanging from the ceiling give this 
cab in a sickly sweet scent. 
• Shovels, ropes, chains, buckets, bales of hay, and sev­
eral large crates are pushed against the walls. 
The crates hold a variety of lichens, mosses, and fungi 
that are fed to the herbivorous creatu res. A successful 
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature) check identifies the vege­
tation as native to the Underdark. and the haunches of 
animal meat as deep rothe - an ox-like creature raised 
for its meat by drow in the Underdark. 
J23. GUNSLINGERS' HOLD 
Hear/breaker and Hellraiser only 
No one is allowed down here without the capta in's per­
mission, and the guards have orders to kill trespassers 
on sight. This area contains the following features: 
• 1\vo drow gunslin gers (see appendix 8) stand guard 
outside area ]27. 
The hold is filled with barrels containing ale and 
fresh water. The barrels are held down by cargo nets 
hooked to the Door. 
Drow Gunslin gers. The drow take cover behind the 
walls that divide this area as they shoot. They fight to 
the death to keep intrud ers from reaching areaj27. 
j24. CLEAN1NG SUPPLIES 
These closets hold mops, brushes, buckets, and soap 
used for scrubbing the decks. 
j25. GUNSLINGERS' CABINS 
Heartbreaker and Hellraiser only 
These two cabins are the quarters of the drow gunsli ng­
ers in areaj23. Each contains the following features: 
• A hammock hangs on the wall opposite the door. 
• A wooden mannequin and a walnut chest rest against 
the wall by the door. 
The mannequins double as armor racks, though no 
armor cur rently adorns them. 
Treasure. Each chest holds two sets of common 
clothes, a water skin filled with wine, and a pouch con­
taining 3d6 gp and 4d10 sp. 
j26. LOCKERS 
Heartbreake r and He/Jraiser only 
Lining this hall are eight closets used as storage lock­
ers by the workers and performers of the Sea Maidens 
Faire. They contain traveling clothes and outerwear 
hanging on hooks, as well as boots and shoes. 
j27. SMOKEPOWDER STORAGE 
lleartbreaker and Hel/raiser only 
The locked door to this forward cabin has a wooden 
sign nailed to the outside that reads, in Common and El­
vish, "RESTRICTED AREA. DO NOT ENTER." The room 
contains the following features: 
<' llAP1 ER 7 I MAESTRO' S l·ALL 
Twenty wooden kegs are secured to the walls with 
ropes. Each keg has a paper label, written on which 
are the words "SMOKEPOWDER! EXPLOSIVE!" in 
Common and Elvish. 
• A shelf above the kegs is lined with wooden boxes. 
Boxes. Ten wooden boxes on the shelf each contain 
one hundred pistol bullets. 
Kegs. Each keg holds five pounds of smokep owder 
(sec appendix A). When one keg explodes, all other kegs 
within the area of effect explode as well. If half the kegs 
explode at once, the blast blows a hole in the forward 
hull large enough to sink the ship. If all twenty kegs 
explode at once, the blast blows half the ship to smither­
eens, shatters windows throughout the Dock Ward, and 
can be heard as far away as the Field Ward. 
j28. WALK-IN CLOSETS 
Eyecatcher only 
The doors to these closets are locked from the outside. 
Port Closet. This closet abutsjarlaxle's cabin (area 
j30) and contai ns tailored outfits and cloaks for every 
season and occasion, as well as towels. Against the back 
wall stands a wooden mannequin wearing an eye patch. 
A secret door along one wall can be detected with a suc­
cessful DC 15 Wisdom (Pe rception) check. 
Starboa rd Closet. This closet abuts the guest cab in 
(areaj29) and contains a half-dozen gowns and two soft 
fur cloaks on hangers, ladies' hats on hooks, and fancy 
towels and shoes on shelves . A secret door along one 
wall ca n be detected with a successfu l DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perceptio n) check. 
j29. GUEST CABIN 
Eyecatcher only 
This richly appointed cabin is set aside for special 
guests. It contains a large bed, a wooden chest, a free­
standing mirror, and a dresser with a lyre atop it. Empty 
wine bottles roll back and forth across the Door as the 
ship moves. The bed holds three giggling figures: 
• jarlaxle Baenre (see appendix B), in the guise of 
Zardoz Zord (absent if he's marshalling the Day of 
Wonders parade; see "Special Events," page 145) 
• Margo Verida, a female Amnian human bard (see 
appendix 8) 
• Khafeyta Murzan, a female Mulhorandi human 
swas hbuckler (see appendix 8) 
Margo and Khafeyta both joined the Sea Maidens 
Faire within the past year - Margo as a lyrist, Khafeyta 
as an acrobat. Jarlaxle has taken a romantic interest in 
both women, who are also in love with each other. 
Margo and Khafeyta are polite but terse. Both arc neu­
tral good. If attacked, they grab their weapons and other 
belongings and Dee through a secret door (see below). 
rr separated fromjarlaxle and compelled to divulge 
information about their host. Margo and Khafeyta reveal 
some or all of the following facts: 
• Zardoz Zord is a drow namedjarlaxle in disguise. 
• Each ship in the Sea Maidens Faire is crewed by 
drow. The ships' figureheads cast illusions on the 
drow, making them appear human. 