l square = 5 feet 
MAP 7.2: Sc; ARLE T MllRPENO T H 
The gnomes know a great deal about submarines and 
very little about everythin g else. They are treated well 
by jarlaxle, but a successful DC 15 Charisma (Intimi­
dation) check or a bribe of I 00 gp or more can convince 
a gnome to s urrende r its master keys, tamper with the 
engine, or pilot the submarine as the characters direct. 
SUBMARINE FEATURES 
The Scarlet Marpenoth has AC 20, 300 hit points, a 
damage threshold of 15, and immunity to poison and 
psychic damage. Tbe submarine's structural integrity 
fails when the vessel drops to 0 hit points, whereupon 
it floods and sinks. The submarine is worth 15,000 gp 
intact and requires at least one pilot and one engineer 
to ope rate. It has a maximum speed of 2 miles per hour 
and can hold up to 10 passengers plus 2 tons of cargo. 
The subma rine has the following general features: 
• fnterior spaces are unlit. (The drow and the gnomes 
rely on darkvision to see.) 
• All furnis hings and features are bolted down. 
Chambers are 8 feet high, with 6-foot-high passages 
and doorways connecting them. 
Air magically circulates through a complex ventilation 
system and sma ll metal grills set into the floors. 
Doors are made of steel and have AC 19, 27 hit points, 
a damage threshold of 10, and immunity to poison and 
psychic damage. A door's lock can be picked by a char­
acter who makes a successful DC 18 Dexterity check 
using thieves' tools. A door can be forced open by a 
chara cter who succeeds on a DC 25 Strength (Athlet-
<' ll APTER 7 I MAEST RO'S FALL 
ics) check. jarlaJCle and the gnomes aboard the Scarlet 
Marpenoth have keys to all locked doors. All doors are 
airtight while closed. 
AREAS OF THE SCARLET MARPENOTH 
The following locations are keyed to map 7.2. 
Ul. ENTRANCE HATCH 
Characters descending from Zardoz Zord's cabin on the 
Eyecatcher (areaj30) arrive in this chamber. From this 
side, the circula r metal hatch is opened by turning its 
valve wheel. This area is magically pressurized to keep 
water from entering the Scarlet Marpenoth if the hatch 
is opened while the submarine isn't docked to the Eye­
catcher. But if both the outer hatch and the inner door 
are opened underwater, the submarine will flood. 
U2. ENGINE ROOM 
The door to this area is locked. A plaque on the door 
reads "ENGINE ROOM" in Common and Gnomish. The 
room has the following feat ures: 
The engine room is filled with machines that hiss, 
whir, and clatter constantly. A rock gnome named 
Breena Baffiestone monitors the machinery at all 
times. Nearby is a copper speaking tube, which en­
ables her to communica te with the control room com­
mand center (area U7b). 
• Drawers in the walls contain screwdrivers, wrenches, 
and other tools. 