• To port and starboard, 3-foot-high, 21"2-foot-wide 
passageways lead deeper into the machinery. Me­
dium creatures must squeeze to move th rough 
these passages. 
Machin ery. The engine is a quasi -magical machine 
that controls the submarine's propulsion and depth and 
powers the fins and rudder that control direction. A 
detect magic spell or similar magic reveals an aura of 
transmutation magic throughout the area. 
A chara cter who has proficiency with tinker's tools 
can use the tools to disable the engine with a successful 
DC 15 Intelligence check. The same check reactivates 
the disabled engine. Whether it succeeds or fails, each 
check represents 10 minutes of work. The engine can 
also be destroyed. Jt has AC 16, 50 hit points, and immu­
nity to poison and psychic damage. 
U3. SoLuu N's STATEROOM 
If he has not been encounte red and disposed of else­
where, a drow gunslinger named Soluun Xibrindas (see 
appendix B) is here, worshiping before a shrine of Lolth. 
His stateroom has the following features: 
• The port alcove contains a net hammock and a steel 
footlocker. 
A black metal shrine ofLolth covered in tiny spider 
statuettes stands against one wall. Al its top is a sculp­
ture of the demon goddess, with the head and upper 
body of a female drow and the lower body of a spider. 
• A Lantanese diving suit hangs in the closet to 
the south. 
Divin g Suit. This experimental device consists of a 
pressure-resistant padded suit, made of canvas with 
iron fittings and iron gauntlets. A fishbowl helmet at· 
taches to the suit's collar and functions as a cap of water 
breathing. 
Treasure . The shrine weighs 50 pounds and is worth 
125 gp as an art object. The footlocker contains a pouch 
holding 50 gp and a potion of healing. The potion's crys­
tal flask, shaped like a spider, is worth 25 gp. 
U4. jARLAXLE'S STATEROOM 
The door to this tidy cabin is locked. The cabin contains 
the following features: 
• The scent of lavender magically permeates the cabin. 
(The scent is created by magic and can be dispelled.) 
• A hammock is suspended in the starboard alcove. A 
detect magic spell or similar magic reveals that the 
wall behind the hammock radiates an aura of trans ­
mutation magic. 
Other furnishings include a tall harp with a stool 
nearby, a harpsichord with a matching bench, a free­
standing mirror, and a large wooden trunk. 
Closet. The locked closet aft of the cabin contains a 
wooden rack stocked with sixty bottles of wine. Each 
one is a rare vintage worth 25 gp. 
Magic Window. Touching the wall behind the ham ­
mock renders the wall transparent from this side. and 
touching it again makes this "window" go away. When 
the wall is transparent, creatures in the cabin can see 
out, but creatures outside the submarine can't see in. 
Wooden Trunk. The trunk isn't locked. Lifting the lid 
causes panels in the front and sides to open, releasing a 
swarm of mechanical spiders that attacks anyone other 
than Jarlaxl e. This swarm has the statistics of a swarm 
of insects (spiders), with these changes: 
• The swarm is made up of Tiny constructs. 
It doesn't require air. food, drink, or sleep. 
• The swarm has vulnerability to lightning damage, 
is immune to exhaustion, and can't be charmed, 
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, knocked prone, 
or poisoned. 
The chest has a secret compartmen t in the bottom 
that can be detected and opened with a successful DC 
13 Wisdom (Pe rception) check. If jarlaxle has the Stone 
o!Go!orr. he keeps it in the secret compartment, along 
with any magic items he might have claimed from the 
characters. The compartment is otherwise empty. 
U5. FEL'REKT'S STATEROOM 
If he has not been encountered and defeated elsewhere, 
a drow gunslinger named Fel'rekt Lafeen (see appendix 
B) is here, cleaning his pistol. His stateroom contains a 
net hammock and a steel footlocker . 
Treas ure. Fel'rekt's footlocker contains 65 gp in a 
pouch, a comb carved from dragon bone (worth 5 gp), 
and a pair of obsidian dice (worth 25 gp). 
U6. KREBBY G'S STATEROOM 
lf he has not been encountered and defeated elsewhere, 
a drow gunslinger named Krebbyg Masq'il'yr (see ap­
pendix B) is here, sharpening his sword. His stateroom 
contains a net hammock and nothing else. 
U7. CONTROL ROOM 
The control room has two levels: an observation deck 
(U7a) and a command center (U7b), with two ladders 
running between levels. Two circular soundproof 
windows are embedded in the port and starboa rd 
bulkheads. The window panes are made of glassteel, a 
resilient metal magically rendered transparent. Curious 
merfolk who live in Deepwater Harbor investigate the 
subma rine from time to time, and might be seen peering 
through the windows. 
U7a. Observation Deck. If jarlaxle Baeore (see 
appendix B) is forced to retreat to the submarine, he is 
here when the characters first arrive. The observation 
deck is an elevated. 10-foot-high metal platform with 
a grilled noor, supported by two metal columns. Two 
padded swivel chairs are bolted to the deck, which is 
enclosed by a thin steel railing. The height of each chair 
can be adjusted to accommodate a Small or Medium 
creature. Between the two chairs is a bronze periscope 
that can be raised or lowered whenever the submarine 
is detached from the Eyecatcher. 
U7b. Command Center. Three rock gnome engineers 
named Lorella Middenpump , Tervaround Waggletop, 
and Anverth Leffery are on duty here, along with two r 
drow elite warriors named Karabal L'enz and Marro 
Qaz'arrt. The drow guard the contro l room and keep the 
gnomes on task. 
Lorella sits in the pilot's swivel chair, which is 
bolted to the floor and can be lowered or raised to 
CHAPTER 7 I MAESTRO'S fA LL 