U12. PRIVY 
This privy has a toilet and a washb asin, both attached to 
pipes. Above the basin is a hinged mirr or, behind which 
is a compartment containing soa p and towels. 
Ul3 . AIR SYSTEM 
The door to this area is locked. A plaque on this door 
reads "AIR SYSTEM" in Common and Gnomish. The 
room has the following features: 
• The area is filled with machines that hiss, wh ir, and 
clatte r constantly. 
• Drawers in the walls contain screwdr ivers, wrenches, 
and other tools. 
To port and starboa rd, 3-foot-high, 2~-foot-wide pas­
sage ways lead deeper into the machinery. Creatures 
that are Medium or larger must sq ueeze to move 
through these passages. 
Machinery. The quasi -magical machinery in this a rea 
gene rates and circu lates fres h air throughout the sub ­
marine. A detect magic spe ll or simila r magic reveals an 
aura of conjuration magic throughout the area. 
A cha racter who has proficiency with tinker's tools can 
use them to disable the machinery with a s uccess ful DC 
15 Intelligence check. The same check reactivates the 
disabled machinery . Whether it succeeds or fails, each 
check repr esents 10 minutes of work. The machin ery 
ca n also be dest royed. It has AC 16, 50 hit points, a nd 
immunity to poison and psychic damage. 
When this machinery shuts down, air stops pumping 
thro ughout the vessel. Unless the air syste m is reacti­
vated, creat ures trapped in the s ubmarine that need oxy­
gen to breath e will begin to s uffocate after two days (see 
"Su ffocatin g" in chapte r 8 of the Player's Handbook). 
SPECI AL EVEN TS 
You ca n use one or more of the following events if the 
characters take an interest in the Sea Maidens Faire. 
THE FRIENDLY D RAGON 
This encounter can be used as the charact ers approach 
the Eyecatcher. Read: 
In the water ahead, a large shape speeds toward you. 
As it gets closer, you recognize it as a dragon with 
bronze-colored scales. Slewing to a stop, the creature 
gives a toothy grin, then raises a claw in a small wave. 
"Well met!" it chirps. 
Zelifarn, a young bronze dra gon, recently moved 
into Deepwater Harbor. He has spent the past several 
month s scouring wrecks at the bottom of the harb or 
for treasure and stas hing precious baubles in a hidden 
underwater cave. Recently, he noticed a strange craft 
mounted on the underside of the Eyecatcher. His at­
tempts to treat with the crew have met with no s uccess, 
but he's curious to know more. Since the cha racters 
appea r to be headed toward a rendezvous with the Eye­
catcher, Zelifarn would like them to find out all they can 
about the underwater vessel without rais ing suspicion. 
The dragon promise s to meet them aga in after they have 
comp leted their mission. In exchange for information, 
he offers to give the party a barnacle-covere d chest that 
he found rece ntly. He hasn't opened it yet, so its contents 
are unknown to him, but he can s mell gold inside. 
TREASURE 
Zelifarn approaches the cha racters aga in as they leave 
the Eyecatcher. If they tell him more about the contents 
of the submarine and he believes that they're being 
truthful , he gives them the promise d reward: an old 
chest with a rusted lock tha t can be busted or pried ope n 
with a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check. It 
contains 300 s p plus a golden amulet shaped like an oc­
topus with ame thyst eyes (worth 250 gp). 
A sec ret compar tment in the chest's lid can be found 
with a successful DC 11 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
1t conta ins a sto pper ed wooden scroll tube that holds a 
spe ll scroll of revivify. 
A NIGHT TO REMEMBER 
If the chara cters stake out the ships of the Sea Maidens 
Faire, they observe strange activity on the pier during 
the ir first night of surveillance: 
A thick fog unexpectedly rises along the water, engulfing 
vessels and docks alike. As the gray miasma thickens, the 
creaking sound of shifting ships becomes increasingly 
haunting. Suddenly, you spot three shadows gliding 
through the gloom like elves slipping through a forest. 
Where they came from and where they're going, you 
don't know. 
The shadowy figures are the three drow gunslingers 
Fel'rekt Lafeen, Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, and Soluun Xibrin­
das (see appendix B). If any of these drow are dead or 
otherwis e indispos ed, replace them with drow elit e 
warriors . The drow used the cover of the fog to come 
asho re in one of the Eyecatcher's rowboats. The boat is 
tied off at the end of the pier between the Heartbreaker 
a nd the Hell raiser. 
These Brega n D'aerth e spies are on their way to a 
secret meeting with Laera l Silverhand (see appendix 
B). The Open Lord is waiting for them in an alley in the 
Dock Ward, under the cloak of an invisibility spell. She 
remains invisible for the entire meet ing. 
Harper spies in Luskan recent ly warned Laeral that 
jarlaxle might be in Waterdeep. She reached out to him 
with a sendina spe ll to arrange th is meeting, in the hope 
of finding out his plans. The characters can follow the 
drow spies to the rend ezvous. If the drow realize they're 
being followed, they mak e no effort to shake their pursu­
ers. If they're attack ed, they scatter and try to complete 
their mission before heading back to the Eyecatcher. 
lf a battl e erupts and escape appea rs impossible, the 
drow fight to the death. A City Watch patrol consisting of 
six vete ran s arrives ld4 minutes later to make arrests . 
CHAPTER 1 f MAESTRO'S FALL 