jARLAXLE
1
S LETTER 
One of the Bregan D'aerthe spies ca rries a letter for 
Laeral. It bears the wax seal of Luskan and is written in 
jarlaxle 's elegant hand, in Elvish. It reads as follows: 
To Her Ageless Majesty, Laeral Silverhand, the Witch­
Queen of Stornanter, Lady of the North, She of the Seven 
Sisters, Chosen of Mystra. and Open Lord of Waterdeep: 
Your spies are to be commended! Rest assured, my 
presence in your fair city is purely recreational-though if 
fortune smiles upon me, this visit could benefit us both. 
Your predecessor left the City of Splendors in a sorry 
state, but you have done wonders to lift the spirit of the 
citizenry during your short time in office. I know how 
politics offends you, so forgive me for taking this oppor­
tunity to point out the obvious. We can make both our 
cities stronger and strike back at he who robbed Waterda­
vians of their wealth and dignity. I'm speaking, of course, 
of that dirty sack of rats, Dagult Neverember. That's the 
phrase you used to describe him yesterday to the emis­
sary from Mirabar, is it not? Evidently, my spies are also 
to be commended! 
Why let Neverember get away with his crimes against 
Luskan and Waterdeep? Can we be allies, if not friends? 
These are the questions that haunt my dreams, as surely 
as I haunt yours. 
Sincerely, 
Laeral isn't surprised thatjarlaxle lacks the courage to 
meet her in person. She thanks the drow messengers 
for delivering the letter, cautions them to mind the City 
Watch and the City Guard, and heads back to the Palace 
ofWaterdeep. The drow spies return whence they came. 
CONVERSATION WITH LAERAL 
If Laeral becomes aware of the characters, she appears 
before them and asks what business they have with Bre­
gan D'aerthe. If the characters have not met the Open 
Lord before, she might impress them with her plain­
spoken manner and lack of pretense. Alone and outside 
the political maelstrom, she acts more like an adven­
turer than a city official. 
1f the characters inquire about the letter, she shows it 
to them and asks their opinions on Luskan's joining the 
Lords' Alliance. In her mind, Luskan is a greedy pirate 
stale that can't be trusted under any circ umstances . If 
the characters feel similarly, she trusts them enough to 
ask for their help in finding and securing Lord Neverem­
ber's hidden cache of dragons. In exchange. she prom­
ises them a 5,000 gp rewa rd and Waterdeep's gratitude. 
D AY OF WONDERS PARADE 
The Day of Wonders is the grandest parade of the fall 
season. andjarlaxle wants the Sea Maidens Faire to 
be a part of it. In the guise of Zardoz Zord. he pays a 
CllAPTl!R 7 I MAESTRO'S FALL 
visit the day before the holiday lo the House of Inspir ed 
Hands. Waterdeep's temple of Gond, to coordinate with 
the acolytes in charge of organizing the parade. He pre­
sents a detailed plan that commingles the attractions of 
the Sea Maidens Faire with the bizarre inventions of the 
temple - a plan that is well received. 
The evening before the Day of Wonders. workers be­
gin assembling the wagons and floats of the Sea Maid­
ens Faire on the pier. Early the following morning, the 
docks are a hive of activity as performers practice their 
routines and caged creatures arc offloaded one by one. 
An hour before highsun on this crisp and windy autumn 
day, the Sea Maidens Faire makes its way to the House 
of Inspired Hands to meet up with the Gond worshipers 
and their contraptions. From there, the parade strikes 
out in earnest, marching through Waterdeep's streets 
to the chee rs of the local folk. Zardoz Zord serves as 
grand marshal, leading the parade on the back of a rain ­
bow-feathered diatryma summoned using his feather of 
diatryma summoning (see appendix A). For jarlaxle, the 
parade is a chance to show off and be cheered; he has no 
ulterior motive for participating in the event. 
WHTLE THE Boss Is AWAY 
As the Sea Maidens Faire parades through Waterdeep, 
the charac ters can slip aboard one or more ofjarlaxJe's 
ships. If things turns violent aboard a ship, its captain 
uses a sending spell to contactjarlaxle.JarlaxJe is 
supremely confident that his crews can overcome any 
threat, so he doesn't rush to their defense at the first 
sign of trouble. Only if the characters do conside rable 
damage will he treat their attack as a setbac k. 
If the characters escape a confrontation on the ships 
but leave behind witnesses who can identify them, it 
takes Bregan D'aerthe several days lo track them down 
(assumiog jarlaxle hasn't already met them). Although 
killing the characters would be easy at that point.jar­
laxle would rather put them to work for him. He has 
them watched but doesn't provoke hostilities until such 
time as the reward clearly outweighs the risks. 
ESCAPED B EAR 
The Sea Maidens Faire parade ends where it started - at 
the docks. As the attractions are being loaded back onto 
their ships, the Faire's polar bear gets loose, fleeing into 
the Dock Ward before its handlers can corner it. News 
of the escaped bear spreads quickly, and sightings are 
frequent. If the characte rs impressed one of the drow 
ship captains, he contacts them by way of a sending 
spell and asks for help. He wants the bear retrieved be­
fore the City Guard finds and kills it, offering a reward 
of either 250 gp or a potion of water breathing. 
The cha racte rs can track and corner the polar bear 
with a successfu l DC 16 Intelligence (Investigation) or 
Wisdom (Surviva l) check. Whether a check succeeds or 
fails, each attempt represents 1 hour of searching . If the 
characters find the bear within 4 hours, it can be lured 
back to the Sea Majdens Faire with food or a successful 
DC 14 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. The captain 
then makes good on the promised reward. If the charac­
ters don't find the bear, members of the City Guard get 
to it first and kill it. 