ANSHOON YEARNS TO RULE WATER DEEP 
as a tyrant, take over the Zhentarim, 
and use both seats of power to plunder 
and control the Sword Coast. He needs 
the gold in the Vault of Dragons to pay 
off Masked Lords and Zhentarim lead­
ers whose support will be instrumental 
when the time comes to oust Lady Laeral Silverhand as 
Open Lord. Manshoon has a long list of powerful ene­
mies, among them the Harpers, Elminster of Shadow ­
dale, Halaster Blackcloak of Undermountain, and the 
Blackstaff of Waterdeep. These enemies would quickly 
move against Manshoon if they learned he was biding 
in Waterdeep. For his evil plans to succeed, Manshoon 
must operate in the shado ws for the time being. 
FACING MANSHOON 
A head-on battle with Manshoon isn't likely to go well for 
the characters. That said, the wizard's greatest weak ­
ness is that he has powerful enemies in Waterdeep. The 
risk of exposure keeps him hidden, and the characters 
can thwart him by furnishing his enemies with proof 
that he's alive (::iftcr a fashion) and operating in Water­
deep. When it comes to Manshoon clones, deciding to 
"let the city deal with it" is a wise course of action. 
If the characters find themselves at the evil wizard's 
mercy, Manshoon will gladly trade their pitiful lives for 
the Stone ofGolorr and the keys to unlock the Vault of 
Dragons. In exchange for helping him get the gold. he 
promises the characters 10 percent of the trove (50,000 
gp). Manshoon has no intention of honoring this agree­
ment , but it can help buy the characters some time. 
If the characters manage to kill Manshoon and the 
local authorities are made aware of the act, no murder 
charges are filed. Rather, the characters' actions are cel­
ebrated. Laeral Silverhand summons them to the Palace 
of Waterdeep to thank them officially, in her capacity as 
Open Lord. Sometime later, Vajra Safahr invites them 
to BlackstafTTower to thank them for their service and 
offer them membership in Force Grey. 
DISR U PT I NG M ANS H OON'S 
OPE RATI ON 
Characters can hinder Manshoon in the following ways. 
RELEASE THE BARLGURA 
1f the characters free the barlgura demon in area K15 
and allow it to roam Kolat Towers, Manshoon loses 
many followers to the demon's rampage. 
R EPORT MANSHOON 
Delivering proof that Manshoon is hiding in Waterde ep 
to Laeral Silverhand, Mirt, the Harpers, Force Grey, the 
Blackstaff, the Lords' Alliance, the Order of the Gaunt­
let, the City Watch, or the Watchful Order ofMagists 
and Protectors triggers a far-reaching effort to oust 
him Crom the city. Such proof can be obtained from any 
of Manshoon's lieutenants, who can be capt ured and 
CHAP"! ER 8 I W INTE R WI ZA RD RY 