turned over for interrogation. These lieutenants include 
Sidra Romeir (area K2), Mana fret Cherryport (area K3). 
Urstul Floxin (area ES), Vevette Blackwater and Agorn 
Fuoco (area ES), and Havia Quickknife and Mookie 
Plush (area ElO). 
The ledger in area E13 also contains proof of Man­
shoon's malfeasance. Giving it to Laeral Silverhand, 
Vajra Safahr, Mirl, or a magister provides enough evi­
dence for them to act on. 
Once Manshoon's whereabouts are established, the 
City Guard cordons off and surrounds Kolat Towers. 
The Blackstaff and the Watchful Order assist as needed. 
lf the characters deactivated the force field, the siege is 
brief and Manshoon's forces are routed. If the force field 
remains in place, the Watchful Order can deactivate it. 
When all is said and done, Manshoon is forced to re­
treat to his cxtradimensional sanctum. From there, he 
continues his search for the Vault of Dragons while fend­
ing off attackers. 
STEAL MANSHOON'S SPELLBOOK 
Stealing the spellbook from area E13 causes Manshoon 
to slow his search for the Vault of Dragons while he 
either tries to replace it or sends a simulacrum (see ap­
pendix B) and other forces to retrieve it. 
KOLAT TOWERS 
This dilapidated, two-towered edifice stands tall in the 
Southern Ward. Its neighbors are aware of the magi­
cal force field that surrounds it, and they can see light 
from continual flame spells spilling out of the windows, 
C HAPT ER 8 I WI N'J l!.R WI 7..ARDRY 
Despite these persistent magical effects, most folk 
believe the structure is abandoned. Others think it's 
haunted by the ghosts of the Kolat brothers. They're 
wrong, of course. 
Manshoon posts no visible guards outside Kolat 
Towers, since he wants others to believe the site is aban­
doned. The evil wizard and his underlings come and go 
using teleportation circles inside the towers. 
FORC E FIELD 
An invisible field of magical force surrounds and covers 
Kolat Towers. The field is paper-thin and stands just 
outside the outer wall of the estate, extending upward 
to contain the buildings in their entirety. Nothing can 
pass through the barrier. including air, fog, rain. and 
snow. Creatures that don't realize the field is there 
bounce off it, with birds especially prone to striking it. 
The ground outside the field is regularly littered with 
the tiny corpses of birds that broke their necks hit-
ting it. and street cleaners come by every morning to 
sweep them up. 
DIGGING UNDER THE FORCE FIELD 
There are no openings in the force field, which extends 
1 foot underground. It takes 1 hour for a character with 
a shovel to dig a hole deep enough for a Medium crea­
ture to squeeze through, going under the field to the 
other side of the towers' outer wall. Since Kolat Towers 
is surrounded by other buildings, there's a 75 percent 
chance that any digging attracts 2d6 members of the 
City Walch (veter ans), who pul a slop to it. 