TRACKING RENOWN 
This adventure includes side quests available only to 
characters who join the factions described in this adven­
ture. You can use the optional renown rules in chapter 1 
of the Dungeon Master's Guide to track a character's rank 
and ascent within a given faction. The Dungeon Master's 
Guide gives names for various ranks within the Harpers, 
the Emerald Enclave, the Lords' Alliance, the Order of the 
Gauntlet, and the Zhentarim. Rank names for members of 
Bregan D'aerthe, Force Grey, and the Xanathar Guild are 
given below, with the renown needed to attain each rank. 
Bregon D'aerthe Ranks: Orbb (private, 1), Kyorlinorbb 
(corporal, 3), Khal'abbil (sergeant, 10), Mallasargtfin (lieu­
tenant, 25), llareth (captain, 50) 
Force Grey Ranks: Cray Hand Initiate (1), junior Gray 
Hand (3), Senior Gray Hand (10), Force Grey Initiate (25), 
Defender ofWaterdeep (50) 
Xanathar Guild Ranks: Eyestalker (1). Agent of the Eye 
(3), Eye Ray (10), Guild Boss (25), Hand of the Eye (50) 
join the Watchful Order ofMagists and Protectors might 
be denied access to sages, libraries, and othe r useful 
resou rces. 
Guilds charge member s month ly or yearly dues that 
vary. For simplicity, you can have a guild charge 1 gp per 
month or 10 gp for a year's dues paid in advance. A guild 
can expel a member for any number of reasons, not the 
least of which is failing to pay dues. 
FACTI O N M EMB ERSH I P 
A character with the faction agent background (de­
scribed in the Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide) must 
choose a faction to belong to (see "Factions in Water­
deep" below). Characters without this background can 
join factions once they reach the end of chapter 1 of this 
adventure. 
CHARACTER A DVANC EME NT 
You can track experience points or simply allow char­
acters to level up when they reach certain points in the 
adventure. Ideally, the cha racters should fall within the 
desired level range as they expe rience each chapter, as 
shown in the Suggested Character Levels table. 
SUGGESTED CHARACTER LEVELS 
Chapter 
1. A Friend in Need 
2. Trollskull Alley 
3. Fireball 
4. Dragon Season 
5. Spring Madness 
6. Hell of a Summer 
7. Maestro's Fall 
8. Winter Wizardry 
Suggested Level 
1st-2nd 
2nd 
3rd 
3rd-4th 
5th or higher 
5th or higher 
5th or higher 
5th or higher 
If you decide to track exper ience points , you can slow 
the rate of advancement by banking XP until you're 
ready for the party to level up. Conversely, you can has­
ten level advancement by awarding ad hoc XP for com­
pleting goals, roleplaying well, and surviving or avoiding 
deadly traps. Any such award should be no more than 
INTRODUCTION 
what the characters would earn for defeating a monster 
with a challenge rating equal to their level. For examp le, 
a fair ad hoc award for a party of 2nd-level adventurers 
would be 450 XP. which is what the characters would 
earn for defeating a challenge rating 2 monste r. 
If you dispense with XP tracking and allow characters 
to gain levels as the adventure progres ses, use the Sug­
gested Character Levels table as your guide. 
FACTIO NS I N WATE RDE EP 
Various factions have roots in Waterdeep, and any char­
acter with the faction agent background (described in 
the Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide) can choose to be­
long to one of the factions described below, provided the 
character meets the faction's prerequisite s. 
If you're using the optional renown rules described in 
chapter 1 of the Dungeon Master's Guide, allow a player 
whose character has the faction agent backgro und to 
roll a d4 to determine that character's renown at the 
start of the adventure. See the "Tracking Renown" side­
bar for more information. 
Characters of other backgrounds will have opportu­
nities to join a faction later in the adventure. Any such 
character must meet a faction's prerequisites to be eligi­
ble to join it, and the character's starting renown is 0. 
Characters who have renown greater than 0 in a fac­
tion can gain its support in times of need by reaching 
out to an influential NPC member of that faction. As a 
character's renown improves , so does the quality of the 
support. A faction might also help non-members who 
further its interests. The descriptions of tbe factions that 
follow include suggestions for how support from a fac­
tion can manifest. 
You decide the extent to which a faction will assist the 
adventurers, based on each faction's perception of how 
important or valuable the adventurers are. For example, 
if the charac ters earn Laeral Silverhand's trust and her 
support of them becomes public knowledge, members 
of Bregan D'aerthe might aid the characte rs so that 
jarl axle Baenre can curry favor with the Open Lord of 
Waterdeep. 
BREGAN D 'AE RTHE 
A character must be a drow, preferably a male, to join 
this faction. 
Bregan D'aerthe is a company of mercenaries orig­
inally made up of the much-derided and dishonorable 
castaways of destroyed drow houses. The group's leader, 
Jarlaxle Baenre, is always looking for new member s to 
fill the ranks, and loyalty is what matters to him most. 
Almost all Bregan D'aertbe members are male be­
cause female drow rarely condescend to take orders 
from a male. A female drow can earn a place in the 
faction by decrying the drow matriarchy and convincing 
jarlaxle that she would be an asset to the brotherhood. 
jarlaxle employs non-drow operatives as well, none of 
whom know they're working for him; such individuals 
aren't considered members of the faction. 
Bregan D'aerthe is using one of Jarlaxl e's legitimate 
business enterprises-the Sea Maidens Faire - as a 
front in Waterdeep . The Sea Maidens Faire consists of 