Manafrel wears a telcporter ring (see "Teleporter 
Rings," page 157). 
Treasure. A cupboard holds a dozen jars of herbs 
and spices. Among them is a flask labeled "Assassin's 
Blood," which contains six doses of the poison. 
K4. MUSTY L I BRARY 
This musty room is situated at the bottom of the main 
tower, and it has no door on level 1. It contains the fol­
lowing features: 
• A suit of dented plate armor stands in the center 
of the room. 
• Tomes are packed into built-in stone bookshelves, 
with a tall alcove above each shelf holding a gargoyle. 
(Two of these sculptures are living gargoyl es.) 
• An in-progress game of Dragonchess sits on a marble 
tab le in a reading nook. 
• A stone staircase spira ls up to area K6. 
Gargoyles. The two real gargoyles are indistingu ish­
able from the inanimate gargoy le statues in the high 
alcoves. When intruders start poking around the room, 
the gargoyles swoop down and attack. 
Tomes. Any character who spends an hour searching 
the bookshe lves finds a fat tome titled Flumph Mating 
Rituals, with an embossed image of two flumphs on 
the cover, their tendrils entwined. The cover is a false 
one, wrapping around a tome bound in dragon hide-a 
disguised spellbook that contains the following wiz­
ard spells: arcane lock, burning hands, comprehend 
languages, counterspell, darkvision, dimension door. 
find familiar, levitate. sending, and unseen servant. 
(You can replace any of these spells with a spell of the 
same level.) 
Treas ure. The Dragonchess set is made of band­
carved ivory and is worth 500 gp. 
K5. GARBAGE - FILLED ROOM 
This room is on level 1 of the outermost tower but isn't 
accessibl e from that floor. It reeks of garbage and has 
the following features: 
• Ankle-deep refuse fills the chamber. 
• Black sco rch marks stretch from floor to ce iling a long 
the walls a nd the sta irs, which lead up to a rea Kl O. 
Manshoon's servants throw thei r garbage here. The 
Kolat brothe rs created some magic items in this room, 
and an expe riment gone awry caused the scorch marks. 
K6 . MAIN TOWER LANDING AND LEDGE 
Level 2 of the main tower has the following features: 
• A stone landing with no railings has a door leading 
to area K7 and a stone spiral stai rcase descending to 
a rea K4. An invisible staircase with no railings (see 
"Kolat Towers Features," page 149) hugs the wall as 
it climbs from the landing to area Kll. 
• Across from the landing, a wide stone ledge protrudes 
from the northeast wall beneath a window. A pair of 
identical wooden chests sits atop the ledge. (One chest 
is real. The other is a mimic .) 
Ledge. There's no easy way to access the ledge, which 
is 8 feet away from the landing and at the same height. 
CHA PTER 8 l WINT ER WI ZARD RY 
Characters can try to jump onto the ledge, or they can 
hook a rope onto the railing on the level above (area 
Kll) and swing across the gap. They can also use magic 
to cross. Anyone who falls off the landing or the ledge 
lands in area K4, 20 feet below. 
Mimi c. A character who touches the mimic becomes 
adhered to it. The mimic attacks if disturbed or when a 
character inspects the real chest next to it. 
Treasure. The genuine chest is unlocked and contains 
thirteen items, each of which can be used as an arcane 
focus: two crystals (worth 10 gp each), an orb (worth 20 
gp), four rods (worth 10 gp each), and six wands (worth 
10 gp each). 
K7. READING ROOM 
This room contains the following features: 
• A burly half-ore clad in black leather armor sits in an 
overstuffed chair in the northernmost corner of the 
room, reading a book. 
• Large framed pictures of cities and landscapes hang 
on the walls, and a worn, blood-spattered rug covers 
the floor. Other furnishings include a pair of rocking 
chairs, a couch, and an ottoman. 
Mouthwatering scents rise from a staircase that 
curves down to the kitchen (area K3). 
Zhent. Yorn the Terror is reading a copy of Volo:S 
Guide to Monsters, autographed on the title page by the 
author with an added note that reads, in Common: "For 
Yorn. I hope you find the ore chapter illuminating!" 
Yorn is a half-ore thug, with these changes: 
• Yorn is neutral evil. 
• He has these racial traits: When reduced to 0 hit 
points, he drops to 1 hit point instead (but can't do this 
again until he finishes a long rest). He has darkvision 
out to a range of 60 feet. He speaks Common and Ore. 
Yorn values his own well-being above all else. He is 
initially indifferent toward intruders. If Yorn believes the 
characters aren't a threat, he's happy to chat with them 
about the inhabitants and the layout of Kolat Towers. He 
has never visited Manshoon's extraplanar sanctum, but 
he does know that the teleportation circle in area K22 is 
the way to get there. 
Combat in this area draws the attention ofManafret 
Cherryport in area K3, who investigates. 
Treas ure. Yorn carries 36 cp, 20 sp, 12 gp, 8 taols, 
and a gem-studded ivory toothpick (worth 25 gp) 
in a pouch. 
K8. APPRENTICE BEDROOM 
This narrow room contains the following features: 
• Three single beds are bunched less than an arm's 
length apart beneath a staircase that leads up 
to area Kl2. 
• At the foot of each bed is a wooden chest. 
The Kolat brothers once took on apprentices, who 
slept here. Manshoon now allows his own apprentices­
Ered Payno, Havi Termock, and Savara Firethorn-to do 
the same. All three can be found in area Kl5. 
Treasure. Inside each chest is a set of common 
clothes, a spare spe ll component pouch, candles, ink, 