pens, paper, and 3d6 gp. Each chest also holds a spell­
book that contains all the spells its owner has prepared . 
In addit ion, Ered's spellbook contains burning hands, 
knock, and lightning bolt; Ravi's spellbook contains 
charm person, detect thoughts, and major image; and 
Savara's spellbook contains comprehend languages, 
phantasmal force, and phantom steed . 
K9. BRIDGE AND WALKWAY 
A wooden bridge connects the two towers 20 feet above 
the ground, and a walkway attached to the br idge enc ir­
cles the outside of the outer tower. The bridge and the 
tower walkway lack railings. Thei r plan ks and stones 
groan and crack underfoot but are safe to walk on. 
KIO. W I ZARD STATUE 
This level of the outer tower consists of a landing and a 
nar row ledge with the following features: 
The landing is to feet square and is met by two sta ir­
cases. One descends 20 feet to area KS, and one as­
cends 20 feet to area K20. 
• The narrow ledge built into the southeast wall has a 
life-size statue of a bearded human wiza rd standing 
atop it. The wizard looks angry and is leveling a stone 
wand at the door to area K9. 
Statue. The statue depicts Duh lark Kolat, and a 
detect magic spe ll or similar magic revea ls an au ra of 
transmutation magic around it. The first time a char­
acter steps onto the landing, the statue levitates 1 foot 
above the ledge and intones the following wa rning 
in Common : 
"I am Duhlark Kolat, the g reat wizard and master of this 
tower! How dare you invade my home! leave at once or 
be destroyed by magic beyond your comprehens ion!" 
The threat is empty, but the statue continues to levitate 
for 1 minute before sinking back down to the ledge. 
The magic resets after 1 hour. Wh ile it is levitating, the 
statue can be easily pushed or pulled aro und. 
Casting dispe l magic on the statue while it's floating 
causes it to fall, topple off the ledge, and shatter in a rea 
KS below. Anyone in that area when the statue falls 
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexter ity saving throw or take 
22 (4d10) bludgeon ing damage. 
K l l. LABORATORY 
This room consists of a ledge connected to the levels 
above and below by invisible staircases (see "Kolat Tow­
ers Features," page 149). One stai rcase descends 20 
feet to area K6, and the other climbs 20 feet to area KlS. 
The area contains the following features: 
• Shattered glass covers the floor, and a large wooden 
trellis table has been knocked on its side . 
• A large empty cabinet dominates the back wall. 
This laboratory has been picked clean by Manshoon 
and contains nothing of value. 
CHAPTER 8 I WINTER WlZARDRY 
KJ2 . STAFF DISPLAY 
This room contains the following features: 
A half-dozen staffs of various styles are hung proudly 
on the walls at the top of the landing. 
• A staircase descends to area K8. 
Staffs. Each staff is different in construction and style: 
a twisted birch branch, a sturdy oak dowel, a glittering 
haft of stone, a steel pole carved with blue runes, a dim­
pled coppe r staff topped with a copper crescent moon, 
and a blown-glass cane capped with a black marble orb. 
All six staffs an imate and attack interlopers who enter 
the area without being escorted by Manshoon or one of 
his lieutenants. The staffs have the same statistics as 
ftying swords , except they deal bludgeoning damage on 
a hit. If a fight breaks out in this area, the creatures in 
area K14 come to investigate. 
Kl3. HOLDING CELL 
The door to this room has a narrow , barred window set 
into it. The door is locked and trapped (see below). As 
the characters approach the door, read : 
A raspy voice calls out from beyond the door. "If you 
be good, let us rid these towers of evil's stench. If you 
be evil, open the door so we may battle, and my eterna l 
boredom can end." Beyond the door's barred window, 
a gargoyle lurks in a stone cell, challenging you in a low 
growl. "Come on, then!" 
Trapped Door. A glyph of warding spell has been cast 
on the door, set to trigger when it is opened by anyone 
other than Manshoon . The glyph, which resemb les an 
ornate letter M, can be found with a successful DC 18 
Intelligence (Investigation) check. The glyph targets the 
creature that opens the door with a blindness/deafness 
spell (save DC 18). 
Lady Gondafrey. Duh lark Kolat long ago trapped 
a magica l expe riment in this cell: a gargoyle that has 
been imbued with the personality of a human knight of 
Tyr (god of justice) named Lady Gondafrey. This gar­
goyle has an Intelligence score of 10 and an a.lignment 
of lawful good. It speaks Common, and its face looks 
more humanoid than gargoyle. Manshoon is am used by 
the creature, so he keeps it alive but locked in the cell. 
If the characters free Lady Gondafrey, she offers to 
fight alongside them; however, she quickly turns against 
any character who exhibits cruel or unlawful behavior. 
She can offer helpful information about Kolat Towers, 
and she is familiar with both the layout of the towers 
and the current occupants of the place. She knows that 
Manshoon resides in an extraplanar sanctum access ible 
through a teleportation circle that his Lieutenants can 
activate using special rings. The gargoyle doesn't know 
where the teleportation circle is located , nor does she 
know why Duh lark transferred her consciousness into 
her present form. 
The gargoyle retains fragmented memories of the life 
of Lady Gondafrey, a native Waterdavian who served 
in the City Watch. After identifying Duhlark Kolat as a 