suspect in several local disappearances. she darkened 
his doorstep in 1379 DR. the Year of the Lost Keep. 
Annoyed by this invasion of his privacy and not in his 
right mind, Duhlark captured Lady Gondafrey, used a 
spell to meld her form with that of a gargoyle, and im­
prisoned her. 
If the gargoyle travels with the party, roll a dlO each 
day at dawn. On a roll of 1, Lady Gondafrey's alignment 
becomes chaoti c evil for 24 hours as the gargoyle's in­
nate demeanor exerts itself. In this state, the creature 
tries to orchestrate the characters' deaths, going so far 
as to attack lone characters. 
Kl4 . SERVANTS ' QUARTERS 
This room contains the following features: 
• Furnishings include four beds, a small table with four 
chairs, and tattered window curtains. 
Four Zhent thu gs relax here-one trying to rest, two 
others playing cards, and the fourth sitting on the 
edge of a bed, re-stringing a heavy crossbow. 
The thugs work for Manshoon and leap up to attack 
anyone they don't recognize as one of their own. A suc­
cessful DC 17 Charisma (Deception) check convinces 
these Zhents that the characters are their allies. 
Treas ure. Resting in sma ll piles and neat stacks on 
the table are 74 cp, 52 sp, 19 gp, and 4 taols. 
Kl5 . SUMMONING CHAMBER 
This room is connected to the levels above and below by 
invisible staircases (see .. Kolat Towers Features," page 
149), one descending 20 feet to area Kll and the other 
climbing 20 feet to area K16. This area contains the fol­
lowing features: 
• A 10-foot-diameter circle of runes has been drawn on 
the floor in blood that is now dried. Smoke billows 
from four iron braziers placed around the circle. 
Three appr enti ce wizards (see appendix B) stand out­
side the circle, chanting an incantation. A barlgura is 
slumped motionless within the circle. 
The three wizards here are Manshoon's app rentices ­
Ered Payno (LE male Damaran human), Havi Termock 
(CE female Chondathan human), and Savara Firethorn 
(NE female Tethyrian human). Each wears a teleporter 
ring (see "Teleporter Rings ," page 157). The magical 
incantation that the three are reciting has quelled the 
barlgu ra and rendered it unconscious. If any of them 
stop chanting, the demon awakes and becomes enraged, 
though it remains bound within the circle. Whenever it 
takes damage, the barlgura can attempt a DC 10 Cha­
risma check. On a successful check, it breaks out of the 
circle and atcacks any creature it can reach. 
Freeing the barlgura disrupts Manshoon's operation, 
forcing the wizard to spend time and resources defeat­
ing the fiend and replacing slain underlings . 
Kl6. CONSTRUCT WORKSHOP 
The invisible staircase from area K 15 ends i o front of 
a closed door. The door is unlocked and opens into the 
room, which contains the following: 
• Bits of clay, stone, bone, and metal litter the floor and 
cover a wooden table in the middle of the room. 
• The floor creaks and tilts slightly when stepped on, 
and it can be seen to be detached from the walls. Two 
oversized iron clamps on opposite sides of the room 
hold the floor in place. Each of these rusty mecha­
nisms is attached to an iron lever. 
• A wooden staircase once climbed 20 feet to the next 
level, but it has partially collapsed. 
The Kolat brothers once crafted constructs in this 
workshop. The magical clamped tloor was built as a pre­
caution in case one of the experiments went berserk. 
When a creature that doesn't work for Mans hoon's 
Zhenta rim enters this room without being escorted, the 
metal scraps on the floor fly together, forming a suit of 
animat ed armor that attacks. When the armor is re­
duced to 10 hit points or fewer. it tries to pull one of the 
levers on its next turn. 
Floor Clamps. Pulling a lever is an action that causes 
both clamps to release the floor, which is then magically 
driven upward into the ceiling. Creatures standing on 
the floor are knocked prone and must make a DC 20 
Dexterity saving throw as they slam into the ceiling, 
taking 22 (4dl0) bludgeoning damage on a failed save, 
or half as much damage on a successful one. The floor 
then settles a few feet below the ceiling, cutting off ac­
cess to the stairs down to area KlS but leaving charac­
ters free to climb up the collapsed staircase to area K17. 
(The magical floor was designed to prevent a berserk 
golem from reaching the lower chambers of the towers, 
and potentially the city beyond, while the Kolat brothers 
dealt with it.) After 10 minutes, the floor descends to its 
normal level and the clamps lock it down again. 
Partia lly Collapse d S tairs. A creature can climb 
the sta irs to area K17 with a successf ul DC 10 Dexter­
ity (Acrobatics) check. If the check fails, the creature 
falls 10 feet. 
K l7. FLESH GOLEM 
Th is unlit hallway contains the following features: 
Any character who inspects the hall for traps and suc­
ceeds on a DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check notices 
I-inch-diameter holes drilled into the walls at ankle 
height, set at regular intervals along the length of 
the passage. 
• A flesh golem stands in front of the door lo area K18. 
• A one-way secret door is set into the innermost wall. 
Golem Trap. The flesh golem was created by Duh lark 
Kolat. Manshoon chose to leave it here and instructed 
his lieutenants not to disturb it. It moves to attack 
anyone other than Duhlark who approaches within IO 
feet of it. A character disguised as Duhlark (using the 
statue in area KIO as a model) can fool the golem with a 
successful DC 10 Charisma (Deception) check. 
The golem stands on a pressure plate. When it steps 
off the plate to attack someone out of its reach, the 
weight on the plate is lifted, causing poison gas to erupt 
from the holes in the walls. When the trap triggers, each 
creature in the haJI must make a DC 12 Constitution 
saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed 
saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful 
one. The gas lingers for 1 minute unless dispersed with 
a gust of wind spell or similar magic. While the gas 
CHAl'TJ::R 8 I WINTER WIZARDR' 