three carnival ships (the Eyecatcher, the Heartbreaker, 
and the Hell raiser) crewed by disguised drow and a host 
of non-drow performers (musicians, acrobats, actors, 
and the like). The ships' cargo consists mostly of wagons 
and floats that can be hastily assembled and paraded 
through the city. The drow use these parades to draw 
attention away from their illicit activities. 
fn the magical guise of a flamboyant Tlluskan captain 
named Zardoz Zord,Jarlaxle oversees things from the 
Eyecatcher, his flagship, and the Scarlet Marpenoth, a 
submarine mounted underneath it. He relies on three 
drow gunslingers - Fel'rekt Lafeen, Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, 
and Soluun Xibrindas - to do most of his dirty work in 
the city. For more information onJarlaxle and his lieu­
tenants, see appendix B. 
Bregan D'aerthe is skilled at infiltrating criminal orga­
nizations. Xanathar's drow advisor. ar'I Xibriodas (see 
appendix B), is actually a Bregan D'aerthe spy. 
Bregan D'aerthe suppo rt comes in these ways: 
• The adventurers receive small, unmarked black 
pouches of coins from an anonymous source. 
• The adventurers receive an invitation lo dine with 
Zardoz Zord aboard his flagship, during whichjar­
laxJe takes their measure and offers assistance if they 
impress him. 
• Bregan D'aerthe members buy off or quietly dispose 
of individuals who threaten the adventurers (usually 
without asking). 
EMERALD ENCLAVE 
A character must demonstrate an interest in protecting 
nature or the natural order to join the Emerald Enclave . 
Druids and rangers are especially welcome. 
Waterdeep harbors a few members of the faction. 
which seeks to foster harmony between nature and civ­
ilization. Members living in Waterdeep help guard the 
city against unnatural threats, including aberrations and 
undead. They also watch over the City of the Dead (Wa­
terdeep's public cemetery) and the city's parks. 
Members of the Emera ld Enclave ca n be found in 
Phaulkonmere. a noble villa in the Southern Ward. and 
at the SnobeedJe Orchard and Meadery in Uodercliff. 
The walls of Phaulkonmere enclose fabulous gardens, 
and the buildings are covered with moss and ivy. The 
place is owned by descendants of two wealthy families­
the Tarms (longtime Waterdav1ans) and the Phaulkons 
(who are of Cormyrean descent). They spend most of the 
year traveling abroad and entrust the estate to a half-
elf groundskeeper named Melannor Fellbranch. He is 
joined by Jeryth Phaulkon, a noblewoman turned demi­
god who se rves Mielikki, divine lady of the forest. 
The Snobeedle Orchard and Meadery is run by the 
Snobeedle family of halftings, among them an old druid 
named Blossom Snobeedle. Blossom's youngest son, 
Dasher, disappeared in Waterdeep about six months 
ago. He was infected with lycanthropy and is now a 
member of a wererat gang called the Shard Shunners. 
INTRODUCTIO N 