of his family manage the wine business while he fo. 
cuses on his duties as a Masked Lord. Unfortunately, he 
lacks the principles and sound judgment that have led 
to House Thann's success in the past. He also places 
the welfare of humans above nonhumans. In the past, 
he has used Zhentarim thugs to inflict harm on nonhu­
mans who sought positions of political power in the city. 
Now the Zhents are blackmailing Corylus, threatening 
to expose his bigotry unless he uses his influence as a 
Masked Lord to cover up their illegal activities. 
The characters are most likely to encounter Corylus 
as he travels through the city by coach, accompanied 
by six human guard s who watch his back and keep the 
rabble at bay. Corylus refuses to speak with the party. 
If the characters become an annoyance, he has eight 
crooked members of the City Watch (human veteran s) 
crack down on them, then uses his position as Masked 
Lord to clear any charges leveled against these Watch 
members. Corylus refuses lo be indebted to anyone, so 
any attempt by the characters to curry favor with him is 
met with suspicion, if not outright hostility. Even if they 
dispose of Manshoon, Corylus refuses to acknowledge 
that he owes them anything. 
j ELENN U RM BRUSK 
jelenn (N female Tethyrian human nobl e) is a proud 
woman in her fifties who desperately wants to get out of 
debt. Several bad investments ruined her money-lend­
ing business, and most of her reliable customers have 
turned to other providers such as the Cassalanters. 
Jelenn could have borrowed money from any of a num­
ber of nobles in the city or sold off some of the property 
her family owns in Waterdeep, but doing so would have 
turned her private financial woes into local gossip. Fear 
of that exposure led her to borrow money from the 
Zhentarim instead -a decision she has come to regret. 
The Zhents working for Manshoon promise ro keep 
their relationship secret on the condition that she do 
everything in her power to further the group's welfare in 
Waterdeep. 
When not dealing with her slimy creditors,Jelenn is 
occupied with Masked Lord business. She has no time 
for a face-to-face meeting with anyone she doesn't know. 
Characters can confront her as she comes or goes to 
and from her villa, but she never travels without sixteen 
guard s who form a protective wall around her. II the 
characters brazenly mention Manshoon or the Zhen­
tarim by name to her,Jelenn demands that they leave 
her alone or face dire consequences.Jelenn's threat is 
mostly bluster, since she's not eager to make enemies. 
If the characters freejelenn from the yoke of the Black 
Network by defeating Manshoon, her debt is effectively 
canceled. Jn her delight, she grants them a special favor 
(see ··special Favors" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Mas­
ter's Guide). On the other hand, if they threaten to go to 
the press with Manshoon's ledger in an attempt to black­
mail or discredit her, she pretends to go along with them 
while secretly using her influence as a Masked Lord to 
make their lives difficult. 
CllAPTF.R 8 J WINTl!.R WIZARDRY 
D EA DWI NTER D AY FEAST 
The Fellowship of Innkeepers in conjunction with the 
Bakers· Guild. the Guild of Butchers. and the Vintners'. 
Distillers·. and Brewers ' Guild decides to hold a Dead­
winter Day feast for the residents of Trollskull Ailey. 
Broxley Fairkettle (see "Sample Guild Representatives," 
page 41) asks the characters if they would be willing 
to host the feast in their tavern. He believes the gesture 
would be appreciated by their neighbors, in light of the 
recent deaths in the area (see chapter 3). 
If the characters offer up their tavern for the feast, 
guild representatives arrive to stock and decorate it for 
the event. During the three days before the holiday, the 
tavern is bustling with activity and excitement. Hun­
dreds show up on the day of the feast to partake-not 
only residents ofTrollskull Alley. but also folk from 
neighboring streets. There 's plenty of food to go around, 
but the tavern practically groans under the weight of the 
crowd, and additiona l tab les arc set up outside to hand le 
the over£low. People don't appear to mind, even as heavy 
snow begins to fall. Members of the City Watch are on 
hand to make sure everyone behaves. 
Nothing violent happens during the Deadwinter Day 
feast, but the tavern suffers damage as a result of the 
crowds. The Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' 
Guild offers to make repairs for free, but the characters 
must close the establishment for a tenday to facilitate 
the work. The closure has no effect on business in the 
long term, however, since the feast fosters such goodwill 
that clients return in force when the tavern reopens. 
The feast is a great opportunity for characters to 
hobnob with neighbors, guild members, and City Watch 
constables, as well as to gather information on local 
happenings. 
SEC RET S IMUL AC RU M 
ff the characters make an enemy of Manshoon, he tries 
to capture one of them and replace that character with 
a magical duplicate created using the simulacrum spell. 
lf one of the players is absent for a game session and 
circumstances allow it, Manshoon targets that character 
for replacement while the rest of the party is distracted 
by other matters. You don't need to roleplay the char­
acter's capture; just assume it happens. To create a 
simulacrum of the character. Manshoon needs some 
hair, fingernail clippings, or other piece of the charac­
ter's body. Once he obtains the necessary components 
from the captured character, he creates the simulacrum 
and sends it to the party with instructions to spy on the 
group and undermine it from within. 
If Manshoon embeds a simulacrum within the party, 
talk privately to the player whose character has been 
replaced. Then have that player run the simulacrum 
until it is destroyed or the character it replaced is rein­
troduced. The simulacrum has the sa me statistics as the 
character, but it has only half the character's hit point 
maximum and can't gain levels. 