ELCOME, 'TRAVELER! You HAVE IN YOUR 
bands the foremost and most up-to-date 
guide to the city- smiled over by none 
other than its Open Lord, Lady Laeral 
Silverhand. This chapboo k will serve you 
well until my seminal work on the subject, 
Volo:S Guide to Waterdeep-sadly long 
out of print , but now a tome prized by 
collectors - can be updated and printed anew. Ask any 
broadshe et seller, innke eper, shop keeper, tavern owner, 
or bookseller if they'll soon have copies of the new edi­
tion for sale! 
ENTERING WATERDEEP 
Likely you have already arrived in Watcrdeep and borne 
witness to some of its many wonders. But in case this 
pamphlet has found its way beneath your worthy eyes 
in anticipation of your visit, due to the commendable 
efforts of some friend or family member who loves you 
dearly, I shall explain briefly the circumstances of entry. 
You will have traveled through lands claimed and 
controlled by the Lords of Waterdeep long before you 
see its walls. ff you've come from the south by the Trade 
Way, you'll have met the City Guard at their post at 
Zundbridge. Prom the north by way of the Long Road, 
you'll have passed under their watchful eyes at the town 
of Rassalantar. And whether by land or sea, you'll likely 
also have been spotted by the Griffon Cavalry- even if 
you have not spotted them. 
Worry not. Waterdeep is a welcoming city, and you 
have nothing to fear from these guardians unless you 
lead a rampaging army of ores, a horde of gnolls, or sim­
ilar. They don't even require a toll be paid. (Beware any 
City Guard who demands a toll. and report the incident 
to a magist er of Waterdeep at your earliest conven ience.) 
If you travel in a large caravan or on a ship, you will be 
required to register with a magister at the gate at which 
you arrived or with the harbor magister. Magisters can 
eas ily be recognized by the black robes they wear (and, 
in fact, are commonly called "black robes" as a result) 
and the City Guard force that always accompanies them. 
Be aware that magisters can pass a sente nce without a 
trial. It behooves you to treat them with proper respect. 
If you travel overland in a small party or alone, you 
aren't required to register with a magister unless your 
stay exte nds beyond a tenday. At that point, you must 
register with a magister either at the harbor, the gates, 
or the city courts . Discovery of your failure to do so can 
result in a fine or forced labor. Of course, registration 
subjects you to monthly taxation. But as a truculent old 
acquaintance from the Dales once told me, "The sheep 
gives the shepherd its fleece or there'll be mutton for 
dinner." That is, the magisters will get you either way, so 
you might as well register up front. 
That said, many canny visitors with business for a 
month or a season betimes avail themselves of the hos­
pitality of inns in Undercliff, the pleasant farmland east 
of the city proper. The less well-off often find accommo­
dation in the Field Ward. Because neither are official 
wards of the city, they aren't subject to taxation. Note, 
however, that because both these areas have yet to be 
formally accepted as wards of the city, they don't benefit 
Glll\PH R 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENC 111RID!ON 
from the securities of Guild Law or the protection of 
the Watch. If you choose to follow this path, be on your 
guard. Pools rush in where auditors fear to tread. 
Regardless of what size party you arrive with or by 
what means, if you arrive by night or in winter, expect to 
register. In winter and at night the gates are shut. Ships 
aren't expected at night or as a regular occurrence after 
the first frost of the coming season, and are often met at 
docking by a magister-or by a contingent of the Guard 
who will hold travelers aboard until a magister can 
be summoned. 
None of these rules apply to the city's least used gate, 
the West Gate. This smaller gate opens onto the Mud 
Flats a mucky beach used by clam diggers, shore fish­
ers, and those brave enough to bathe in the cold waves. 
Those who make a living through fishing with nets or 
traps also use this gate, keeping their small boats on 
the beach to avoid docking fees. Locals register with the 
Guard as they exit and as they enter. No magister is sta· 
tioned at the gate, but no new arrivals to Waterdeep are 
accepted here. 
lfyou approach by air, expect a vigorous pursuit 
by and confrontation with the Griffon Cavalry. Only 
specially licensed individual s and mounts can fly over 
Waterdeep. Lt is best to land well outside the city and ap­
proach on foot. 
YOU R A RR IVAL I N T H E CITY 
The splendo rs that await you in Waterdeep are legend­
ary. Each of the city's wards is detailed in this work, 
telling you what to expect depending on where you are, 
as well as what thrilling things you might see and do. 
Before that, however, there are the small matters of 
knowing something of the history of the place you visit, 
and of understanding how to comport yourself in the 
Sword Coast's grandest metropolis. 
A LONG HISTOR Y (I N BRIEF) 
"There shall come a time when our city and its deepwater 
bay shall grow in fame and fortune across many realms 
and many worlds. Folk shall know of Waterdeep. our City 
of Splendors, and sing its praises. I have seen it thus, and I 
endeavor to make it true." 
- Ahghairon. the first Open Lord ofWaterdeep, 
circa 1032 DR 
People have inhabited the plateau upon which Water­
deep stan ds for longer than human histories record. But 
as is the way across the dangerous North. civilization 
at the foot of Mount Waterdeep has crested and ebbed 
in great waves. Elf scholars assure me that it was once 
the site of Aelintbaldaar, the capital of their ancient em­
pire of lllefarn. So it was already a glorious place when 
a dwarf prospector named Melair discovered mitbral 
beneath the mountain. lo agreement with the Illefarni, 
Melair called kith and kin to mine under the mountain 
and in the plateau. and thus Clan Melairkyn came to 
rule below as the lilefarni did above. 