wea pons or armor. Instead, it has a culture of civility 
that makes such behavior unnecessary. 
Dueling has long been illegal in Waterdeep, as has any 
sort of act involving assault. Individuals caught brawling 
by the Watch will all be arrested and judged regardless 
of who started the fracas, or why. (Tbe tavern braw ls 
that typically break out under the influence of too much 
dri.nk will often be overlooked by the Watch, as long as 
the proprietor doesn't seek payment for damages and 
no one is s ignificantly injured.) Sport fighting, such as 
boxing or wrestling, is legal only if it occurs in a location 
registe red with the city for that purpose. Additionally, 
a ny blade more than one foot in length is subject to an 
extra tax wheneve r it is sold, which helps to explain why 
Waterdavians prefer to carry knives and knuckledusters 
for self-defense. 
Businesses an d individuals do employ armed guards, 
but except for nobles or foreign envoys, few peop le travel 
abou t the city with such protection . As such, the s ight of 
armed and armored individuals walking the streets who 
a ren't in the livery of the city or one of its noble houses 
inspires caution in most Waterdavians. Folk assume 
that you wouldn't bother Jugging around such equipment 
unless you either intend violence or expect that it might 
soo n be visited upon you. 
C rTYWATCH 
The first so ldiers you see in service to the city will be 
the members of the City Guard who patro l the roads 
lead ing to Waterdeep, watch the walls, guard civic 
st ructures, and protect magisters. Waterdeep's streets, 
however, are policed by an altogether different force: 
the City Watch. The simi larity of their names often con­
fuses newcomers, so I offer this handy mnemonic: "The 
Guard guards the walls while the Watch watches all." 
You can recognize any member of the City Watch by 
the uniform: a green-and-goldenrod doublet and a tall 
stee l helmet. Each typically carries a long truncheon, a 
dagge r, and a buckler. Because most citizens in Water­
deep don't bear weapons, these tools prove a more than 
amp le dete rrent to criminal activity. Members of the 
Watch typica lly don't carry crossbows or other weapons 
to attack at range, but running from the Watch-though 
it may be a time-hono red tradition for local miscreants­
rarely works out for newcomers to the city. I guarantee 
that alt members of the Watch know the streets they 
patro l and that area's residents better than you do, even 
if you stay in Waterdeep for ten seasons. 
... 
WATCH TALK 
Members of t he City Watch employ a sort of slang in deal­
ing with the pub lic. As a visitor, it behooves you to know 
what they mean. 
"What befalls?" means "Someone tell me what's go· 
ing on here." 
"Hold!" means "Don't move a muscle." 
"Down arms !" means "Drop your weapons." 
"Talk truth!" means "Answer me" or "Tell the 
whole story." 
"Robes" references the black robes-in other words, one 
of the magisters. "Do we need robes here?" or someth ing 
similar should be taken as a threat. 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WAT.ERD.EEP .ENCHIRIDION 
... 
The City Watch has watch posts throughout the city. 
These stations are often off the main thoroughfa res, 
tucked away in small courtyards or at cross streets. A 
watch post can be recognized by the green-and-gold lan­
tern outside it, lit even during the day with a continua/ 
.flame spel l. A watch post serves as an organizational 
headquarters and armory . Anyone who wishes to report 
a crime may do so at a watch post in the event a Watch 
constable can't be found else where. A watch post typi­
cally contains a few holding cells where people arrested 
for crimes can be detained until they're marched to a 
courthouse jail before standing trial. 
Small squads head out from the watch posts on daily 
and night ly rounds of the city streets, or on special 
assignments involving protection or investigation. A 
mere pair of Watch operatives might discreetly patrol in 
the Castle Ward; in contrast, squads of eight walk the 
Dock Ward, increasing to as many as a dozen at night. 
UWatch members spot trouble they can 't handle, they 
blow shril l tin whistles to summon more of their mem­
bers-an act that alerts nearby citizens as well. 
City Watch members follow a strict code of conduct 
that makes them one of the most trusted police forces 
aside from paladin -patrolled Elturgard. As long as you 
don't engage in unlawfu l behavior, you can expect to be 
left untroubled by the Watch. 
THE W AT CHFUL ORD ER OF 
MAOIS T S AN D PRO T ECTORS 
Expect to be questioned at the gate, or when you register 
with a magister, regarding your ability to cast arcane 
magic. Wizards, sorcerers, and other arcane spellcast­
ers who intend to stay in Waterdeep for any length of 
time are required to register with the city, and will be 
strongly encouraged to join the Watchful Order of Mag­
ists and Protectors, headed by the Blackstaff. 
Members of the Watchful Order are expected to ren­
der service to the city when called upon, acting as tem­
porary members of the City Watch or City Guard. Their 
expertise often helps investigators determine whether 
magic was used to commit a crime in the city. Members 
can also expect to be tapped for assistance during and 
after fires, natural events that cause multiple casualties, 
or other nonmagical disaste rs. 
Members of the Watchfu I Order form a more or Jess 
sociable association in the city, working together to 
keep an eye on any spellcasters who opt not to join their 
guild. Any havoc caused by a spellcaster in Waterdeep 
risks drawing the wrath of the Lords of Waterdeep-so 
it behooves the Watchfu l Order to watch all its members. 
As should be expected of any city of standing, Water­
deep mints its own coins. All taxes , fines, and guild 
fees must be paid either in Waterdavian coin or the cur­
rency of any member settlement of the Lords' Alliance . 
Though no law requires you to pay for goods or services 
in Waterdav ian coin, the drudgery of weighing foreign 
currency and checking its purity prompts many retailers 
and operators of swift-exchange businesses - including 