Guilds take their laws serious ly, as do members of the 
City Watch and the magisters. If you flout a guild's tra­
ditions, you can expect not only public scorn but also a 
visit from enforcers of the law. In addition, many guilds 
have their own codes of accusation, trial, and punish­
ment, such as: 
• A member of the Bakers' Guild who sells bread baked 
in the wrong shape will be drenched with water and 
coated in his own flour. 
• Heckling a member of the jesters' Guild will result in 
the offending party being jeered at in public by no Jess 
than four guild members for a period of four days. 
• Any ship that unloads its cargo without due obser­
vance or aid by the Guild of Watermen shall have its 
cargo seized or thrown into the harbor. 
Many guilds have codes that entwine each other, 
complicating matters even more for the outsider. In 
Neverwinter, if you want to constr uct a building, you 
simply purchase the land and hire workers to build it. 
Jn Waterdecp, the Surveyors', Map-, and Chart-makers' 
Guild must first be consulted upon designation of the 
plat, then brought in to draw or approve the construction 
plan. The Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild must then 
clear and prepare the site, only after which will you be 
able to hire members of the Carpenters', Roofers', and 
Plaisterers' Guild to erect the structure. 
Moreover, the work will not be complete until mem­
bers of the Guild of Fine Carvers and the Guild of Stone-
W ATE RO E ltP AT MIC.HT 
cutters, Masons, Potters. and Tile-makers design and 
craft any decorative elements of wood, stone, or ceram ­
ics, and after the Most Careful Order of Skilled Smiths 
and Metal forgers has manufactured and installed any 
door hinges. lf the building is to be connected to the 
sewe rs or a city water supply, the Cellarers' and Plumb­
ers' Guild must be called upon again to do that work. 
Want glazed windows installed? For that. you need to 
hire members of the GujJd of Glassblowe rs, Glaziers, 
and Spectacle -makers. 
1f you do business in the city as anything other than a 
purchaser of goods and services, I strongly advise you 
to seek out a local solicitor and pay co be guided through 
the process. No guild of solicitors exists, so be sure your 
choice comes highly recommended by individuals you 
can trust. To learn the peculiarities of any guild's rules. 
consult someone on duty at the guild headquarters or 
ask a senior guild member. 
All that said, working at a gwld-related profession 
without being a member of that guild isn't illegal. Guild 
members have no lawful recourse to interfere in the 
business of someone who chooses to not join the organi­
zation. But if you practice a trade or operate a business 
without becoming a member of the appropriate guild, 
word spreads, and you'll find that your coin isn't good 
for purchasing the goods or services of anyone who is a 
guild member. Since that group includes virtually every­
one who sells the necessities of life or offers shelter for a 
fee, the benefits of joining a guild swiftly become appar­
ent to those who procrastinate in this regard. 