'THE WARDS OF WATERDEEP 
Newcomers to the city ofWaterdeep are often confused 
by the importance that Waterdavians give to wards. lo 
other cities, such as Baldur's Gate and Neverwinte r, 
districrs are bounded by rivers or walls. But in Water­
deep, one can traverse from ward to ward by crossing 
a st reet- a fact that offers the drivers of hire-coaches 
some amusement when an ignorant tourist requests a 
ride to an adjacent ward. 
Each ward has its own history, legends, and traditions 
based around who lived there in the past, famous or in­
famous events, and the uncanny things that continue to 
occur. For example, children (and even some adults) bop 
on one foot when crossing Asmagh's Alley in the Castle 
Ward. Why? Well, Asmagh was an apothecary who poi-
SPEAK LIK E A N ATIVE 
The many idioms and slang expressions ofWaterdavians 
would take a whole book to explore, but here I explain a 
few that might otherwise mystify. 
"Dabbler but no master" and "No mastery blazing forth" 
These idioms trace their origin to Ahghairon, who early 
on in his studies of magic humbly said, "I am no wizard. I 
am a dabbler but no master of magic; it seems no mastery 
burns within me." Both now serve as expressions of false 
modesty applied to any skill or craft, not just magic use. 
"Sharpjaws," "fastfists," "bullyblades," and "alleyblades" 
Those who boast of martial skill but who shrink from 
violence or lack real ability are "sharpjaws." In sharp 
contrast are Waterdeep's "fastfists" (any lout easily pro· 
voked to violence), "bullyblades" (battle-hardened mer­
cenaries hired as muscle), and "alleyblades" (muggers 
and thieves). 
"Longride" and "Last ride" 
To a caravan merchant, a drover, or a farmer from the 
lands around Waterdeep, as well as any Waterdavian who 
rides for sport, recreation, hunting, or falconry, the late 
afternoon is ''longride," and dusk is "last ride." 
"Which the greater thief?" 
Tuezaera Hallowhand was a famous "lone cat" thief ofWa­
terdeep in the 1200s DR, who disappeared suddenly and is 
thought to have come to a violent end. She once robbed a 
wizard and wrote this on his wall with a fingertip dipped in 
his favorite red wine: "I take things. You take freedom with 
your spells. Which of us is the greater thief?" Waterdavians 
now use this phrase in argument with one another over all 
kinds of matters when comparing wrongs done. 
"Doth thy mirror crack?" or "Hurl but think not?" or "Take 
but not count cost? Be nothing, then!" 
Laeral Silverhand, then the Lady Mage ofWaterdeep when 
she was married to Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, once 
publicly rebuked an overambitious wizard of the Watchful 
Order of Magists and Protectors thusly: "If I hurl spells 
but think not of consequences, I am nothing. If I take lives 
but count not the cost. I am nothing. If I steal in the night 
and see not the faces of the devastated come the next 
morning, I am nothing. If I make decrees like a ruler but 
undertake none of the other responsibilities of the throne, 
I am nothing. And ifl do all these things in the name of 
the Watchful Order, I am less than nothing. Doth thy mir­
ror crack?" 
These scornful words are remembered and used almost 
daily in Waterdeep even a century later. 
Cll APTF R 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEFP ENC lll RlOION 
soned many patients, then buried them upright beneath 
the alley under cover of night. He was discovered, and 
some say that as many as eighty bodies were subse­
quently pulled up from holes under the alley's wide flag­
stones. Though this happened over a century ago, chil­
dren passing through the alley still sing a song: "Hop 
for the hollows, hop for the dead, hop on the flagstones, 
hop on their heads." As you stro ll down Warrior's Way 
or the Street of Silver, listen for the children's delighted 
screams and go give it a try. 
These shared stories and traditions impart to each 
ward a different culture, just as much as distinctions of 
class and wealth. Yet nothing drives residents to identify 
with their wards as much as festivals and sport. Nearly 
every race and parade in the city features a competition 
between wards as part of the festivities. On such days, 
homes and businesses Ry the colors of their wards, 
trot out their mascots, and sing rousing songs that cel­
ebrate where they live. 1 f you stay in the city for even a 
month, you're s ure to see some version of this display of 
civic spirit. 
SEA WA RD ---
The Sea Ward stands proud on the high ground above 
Mount Waterdeep's sunset shadow. The rich and the 
powerful (or those who wish you lo think such of them, 
and can afford the rent) reside or run their businesses 
here. When the warlords and pirates of early Waters 
Deep gained enough gold, they built fortresses on what 
used to be fields of grass tousled by sea wind. You can 
still see the remains of some of those old castles incor­
porated into the palatial homes of the noble families that 
dwell in the Sea Ward. For the best all-around view of 
the glittering homes enshrouded by garden walls, go to 
where Diamond Street and Delzorin Street cross, nigh 
to Mystra's House of Wonder, and simply spin in a circle. 
Blue and gold are the Sea Ward's colors in competi­
tions, and the ward's mascot is the sea lion- a fanciful 
combination of fish and feline. There's a persistent but 
patently false legend that the famous Lion Gate at the 
Field of Triumph is the gaping maw of a sea lion. The 
architectural designs for the gates show this to be false, 
however. and they can be viewed in the Map House - the 
guildhall of the Surveyors', Map·. and Chart-makers' 
Guild in the Castle Ward. 
Must-see locations in the Sea Ward begin, of course, 
with the Field of Triumph, but just across the street is 
the no less remarkable House of Heroes - the largest 
temple in the city. Dedicated to Tempus, its many grand 
halls celeb rate the city's champions of both battle and 
sport. The winners of ward competit ions are paraded 
here after their victories, often carried on sho ulders or 
passed from hand to hand over the heads of a crowd. lt 
is a sight you shouldn't miss. 
You should also visit the House of Wonder. This is 
surely the most splendid temple dedicated to the gods of 
magic - with Mystra foremost among them, of course­
in all the world. Although your eye will be drawn to its 
ornate towers, briJliant mosaics, and magical displays. 
look also for the humble violets growing amid the osten­
tation. These delicate flowers were Ahghairon's favorite, 
and they are planted about the temple in memory of him. 