Sw 1FT .JuST 1ce 
Two other temples in the ward are as impressive, but 
in different ways. The beauteous House of the Moon has 
the tallest tower of any temple in the city, rising some 
seventy-five feet above the street. Al its top, priests of 
Selune bask in the light of the moon in all seasons. The 
House of Inspired Hands, dedicated to Gond, presents 
an altogether less peaceful experience. Here. all the 
great innovative minds of the city invent and experiment, 
attempting to create everything from flying machines 
to stronger door hinges. But don't expect a museum of 
marvels such as can be found in Baidu r's Gate. At this 
site, "worship is work," as anyone al the temple is liable 
to tell you. 
Tf you're looking for some good fortune, you should 
surely visit the Tower of Luck, a temple complex dedi­
cated to Tymora. The "tower'' in question is actually a 
many-pillared atrium ingeniously roofed over with glass. 
Beneath the roof, a bronze sculpture of a diminutive 
Tymora, depicted as a laughing young girl, appears to be 
leaping from the very top of an astounding fountain. To 
pay your respects and make a wish, you come around to 
the fountain on a walkway and toss your coin to Tymora. 
Managing to land it in her outstretched hand is a sure 
sign of her favor. 
If you need to refresh yourself during your travels, 
or perhaps to primp before an important meeting or a 
night out, visit Sune's faithful at the Temple of Beauty. 
Its marbled public baths and mirrored salons are open 
from before dawn to after dusk. There's no fee for these 
services. or for the advice and aid of the temple's many 
pleasant attendants, but donations are encouraged. 
Two parks in the Sea Ward might also be worth your 
time. The Shrines to Nature, just a block away from the 
Tower of Luck, are resplendent gardens dedicated to na­
ture gods like Mielikki and Silvanus. The park is closed 
to all except residents of the Sea Ward. Yet from beyond 
the iron fence that surrounds it, you can catch glimpses 
of the superb shrines. statues, and fountains within. The 
Heroes' Garden is the only green space in the city that 
is open to the public besides the City of the Dead, but it 
is tucked away so far to the north in the Sea Ward that it 
gets few visitors - which is a pity, since the fine statuary 
in this lush garden portrays many of the figures import ­
ant to the city's history. 
I hesitate to mention a last location in the Sea Ward, 
and I will not reveal where to find it, for reasons that 
will soon become apparent. There is a house in the Sea 
Ward without windows or doors. You can't see it from 
the street, and those who live near it will not speak of it 
to others. You'll know you are near il when you see blue 
tiles on the streets and walls leading into an alley that 
passes under the surrounding buildings. At night, these 
tiles glimmer dimly with the blue light of foxfire. More 
than one route leads into the Blue Alley, as this place is 
known, but there are precious few ways out. Most who 
enter don't come back. If you see blue tiles. turn around 
and walk away before it is too late. 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERDEEP ENCHIRIDION 