(ITV OF THE D E AO 
Streetlamps don't fare well in the Dock Ward. Their 
candles, oils, and glass are too regularly stolen or 
smashed. The Guild of Chandlers and Lamplighters 
makes a halfhearted attempt to repair the streetJamps 
at the start of each season, but for most of the year, lo­
cals are forced to carry their own light when traveling 
these streets at night. 
The colors of the Dock Ward are burgundy and or­
ange, and its mascot is a swordfish that has always been 
depicted as green for reasons lost to time. The folk of 
the Dock Ward take competition seriously, and they fre­
quently draft their champions from the rough-and-tum ­
ble sailors who come to the city. (Some say they draft 
pirates, but that is pure slander.) Frequent complaints 
arise that these women and men are more citizens of 
the sea than of the Dock Ward itself. But if they register 
with a magister and pay taxes, they are as welcome to 
compete as any long-term resident ofWaterdeep. 
CITY OF THE DEAD 
I could write a book about the City of the Dead. It is such 
a fascinating place, filled with so much history and so 
many stories. But alas, there would be few buyers for 
Volo's Guide to the City of the Dead, since it would be 
of interest mainly to Waterdavians - and the topic is one 
about which they are already intimately knowledgeable. 
The City of the Dead is no drab cemetery. It is a great 
park of grassy hills, tended flower beds , artfully placed 
clusters of trees and bushes, beautiful sculptures, 
astounding architecture, and gravel paths that wend 
intriguingly through it all. Long ago, Waterdavians 
largely abandoned the practice of burying their dead, 
instead entombing them in mausoleums. For centuries, 
the major mausoleums here have each been connected 
to an extradimensional space where the dead are taken, 
mourned, and interred. 
Those who can afford it memorialize the departed 
with sculptures, making the City of the Dead an open ­
air museum that features some of the most stunning, 
haunting, mournful, and downright eerie statues ever 
crafted in marble or bronze. Nobles and wealthy mer­
chants have competed to erect the grandest markers for 
their dead, leading to a wide variety of styles and con­
cepts created by artists at the height of their skills. 
One of the cemetery's most impressive attractions is 
the Warriors' Monument This intricate, sixty-foot-high 
sculpture depicts a circle of women and men striking 
down trolls, ores. hobgoblins, bugbears, and barbarians, 
all of which are falling backward and outward around 
the warriors. Above all of them, a Hying griffon rider 
spears a skeletal knight whose breastplate bears the 
symbol of Myrkul, god of the dead. But this statue is also 
a fountain, and the wounds on these combatants gush 
water! Don't try to imagine it- just go see it. And see it 
as Waterdavians do: pack a midday feast, have a picnic, 
and then take a stroll through the beauty of the place. 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATl!.ROEEP ENCHlRIDION 