O U T SID E THE C I TY P ROP ER 
There's more to the city of Waterdeep than just the 
wards within its walls. lfyou have need to visit the envi­
rons of the city, here's what you'll need to know. 
F I ELD WARD 
This district was once a caravan yard between Water­
deep's two northernmost walls, kept free of settlement 
to serve as a killing field in times of war. As refugees 
from various calamiti es settled there after not being 
allowed into the city's wealthy northern neighborhoods, 
the area has grown up into a lawless town of its own. 
Though not an offic ial ward of the city, the Field Ward 
is commonly referred to as one. The Watch doesn't 
patrol this area, however, and many crim es go uninvesti ­
gated. The City Guard oversees the Field Ward from the 
walls around it, but its members get involved only when 
folk moving into or out of the city are threatened. 
The area is a muddy mess, populated by the poorest 
people and those who take advantage of those folks' 
desperation. It has no sewer system and isn't served by 
the Dungsweepers' Guild a fact that will be quite evi­
dent to your nose if you venture here. J don't recommend 
that you spend any more time here than it takes to pass 
through from one gate to the next. 
The Guild of Butchers operates several slaughter­
houses, smokehouses, and leather-making facilities in 
the area- noisome operations that have been pushed 
out of the city proper. A word to the wise: being fri endly 
with a burly fellow who is good with a knife is one of 
your best defenses in the Field Ward. The other place 
you might solicit aid is Endshift Tavern, a popular stop 
for off-duty members of the City Guard, situated on the 
corner of Endshift Street and the Breezeway. Though 
the guards might not be inclined to assist you, your sta­
tus as a visitor to Waterdeep technically obl iges them to 
help you reach the city proper in safety. 
TH E WONDER S OF TH E W AYMOOT 
The place where the High Road and the Way of the Dragon 
meet in the south of the city is called the Waymoot. At 
the center of the crossroads, a high signpost stands with 
hanging arrows pointing toward the harbor and each of the 
city gates. Created by the Watchful Order of Magists and 
Protectors and funded by local merchants, the signpost 
magically directs travelers to well·known distant locations 
when the names of those locations are spoken into a crys­
tal on the post. The magic of the Waymoot writes the desti­
nation onto the proper arrow of the signpost and indicates 
its distance from Waterdeep in miles. Folk are thereby sent 
out of the harbor or the appropriate gate leading north, 
east, or south, depending on their destination. 
Unfortunately for newcomers, the Waymoot is of no use 
whatsoever in finding locations within Waterdeep. You will, 
however, find a number of enterprising individuals near 
the crossroads who take advantage of this fact to offer 
their services as city guides. Though some reputable mem­
bers of this cadre will guide you true for a fair fee, plenty of 
citizens with nothing to lose or gain by doing so will also 
readily set you on the right course if you're simply polite. 
CHAPTER. 9 I vor.o·s WATE.RDEFP ENCH ! RI DION 
UNDERCLIFF 
This area of rolling grassland and small wooded areas 
east of the city is a rural community focused on farming 
and anima l husbandry, and which caters to travelers. 
It is also the site of a large and well-protected training 
camp for the City Guard, and a prison farm run by the 
City Watch (called Amendsfarm) where those convicted 
of minor offenses work off their debt to the city. Many 
gnomes and halflin gs live in this region, and most build­
ings are built to reflect their stature. 
Two noble families have estates in Undercliff. The Am­
cathra estate is used for the housing and final training of 
horses bred in the town of AmphaiJ, many of which are 
sold to the City Guard. The Hothemer noble house has 
an estate where its members conduct business in over­
land trade beyond the reach of Waterdeep's auditors. 
If you visit this area, 1 recommend theSnobeedle Or­
chard and Meadery, owned and run by the Snobeedle 
halflings. They have a delightful drinking hall and a 
shop sized for larger patrons, and you can pick your own 
fruit when it is in season. 
UNDERMOUNTAJN 
Tales of this legendary dungeon below Waterdeep are 
told well by many in the city, but I'll provide you with the 
basic truths here. 
Beneath the plateau of Waterdeep lies the largest 
and deepest dungeon in the world. It sprawls out under 
the city, said to plunge as many as twenty levels deep. 
The Melairkyn dwarves first excavated the tunnels 
that would become Undermountain, and the drow are 
said to have dug their own tunnels up from below. All 
were claimed , altered, and expanded by the mad wiz­
ard Halaster and his appren tices- who are believed to 
dwell in the dungeons to this day. What drove them deep 
into the earth remains a mystery, but Undermountain's 
allure is a siren song that still draws many. If you want 
to see adventurers descend into the depths, or perhaps 
glimpse some retur ning with wondrous treasures, visit 
the Yawnin g Portal in the Castle Ward. 
THE CITY'S SPLENDORS 
A description of each of the features that cause Water­
deep to be called the City of Splendors would require a 
library's worth of paper. This chapbook can't hope to en­
compass them all, no matter its author's expertise with 
a quill. However, I shall endeavor to enlighten you about 
several sights that have not been mentioned earlie r, and 
to expand upon some previously covered. 
AMEN IT I ES 
You'll find no city on the Sword Coast or in all the North 
half as civili zed as Waterdeep. It's not just the law of the 
land that makes this so, but also the comforts that life 
here provides. 
In most other towns and cities, you'll start with an 
early-morning stumble on the stairs as you carry your 
night soil down to deposit it outside. But in Waterdeep. 
many buildin gs are connected directly to the sewers. 
Public facilities for those out and about can be found 
all around the Market and the Field of Triumph, and 