GRIFFON CAVALRY ON PATROL 
near the largest city squares. ln places without ready 
access to sewers or public outhouses. members of the 
Dungsweepers' Guild make multiple rounds each day, 
collecting urine and excrement separately-for use in 
industry and agri culture , resp ectively. Take comfort that 
in Waterdeep,you'll always find a pot to piss in. 
Also notice how clean the streets are kept. This up· 
keep is due in large part to the hard work of the Dung ­
sweepers' Guild. Dungsweepers can be seen working 
their brooms and carts at every hour of the day-and for 
a few hours after dark-all over the city, removing not 
just animal dung but other refuse. This service is free to 
all, paid for by taxes rendered to the city-although an 
egregious amount of trash left for pickup does result in a 
separate bill from the guild. 
Another amenity soon appreciated by visitors is Wate r­
cleep's water system. With public fountains and wells all 
about the city, clean water is plentiful. Many buildings 
have pumps of their own to draw water from the local 
supply, and some even possess taps that pour out wate r 
with the twist of a knob. This convenience is made pos­
sible by the inventiveness of the Gondar, the industry of 
the Cellarers' and Plumbers' Guild. and the magic that 
Waterdeep inherit ed from the lllefarni elves. 
Waterdeep is also a city of light. Continual flame spells 
illuminate many signs and st rcetlamps in the wealthi er 
parts of the city. Elsewhere, the Guild of Chandlers a nd 
Lamplighters keeps the streets lit (excepting the Field 
Ward and the most danger ous areas of the Dock Ward). 
Not only that , but hundr eds of driftglobes bob about the 
City of the Dead at night, departing to float over the rest 
of the city each morning. Such is not typical behavior for 
driftglobes, I assure you! 
Lastly, no city in the world is as literate as Waterde ep. 
Oghma's priests from the Font of Knowledge offer free 
instruction in reading to all who desire it, and the city 
has over thirty publishers of broadsheets in addition to 
chapbook printers and book publishers. Large paper ad­
ve rtisements are plastered onto alley walls, and smaller 
ones are passed out by those hired by businesses to 
trump et their services. Printed menus can be found 
posted in the windows of most eate ries and are handed 
out to those who dine within. Admittedly, you'll see less 
reading material in the Dock Ward and the Field Ward, 
but this fact is notabl e only because of its preponderance 
elsewhere. 
THE GRIFFON C AVALRY 
Waterdeep doesn 't have the fabled flying ships of Hal­
ruaa, but it does deploy an aerial defense force. Brave 
warriors of the City Guard light out from the Peaktop 
Aerie atop Mount Waterd eep, riding fearsome griffons 
that have been bred and train ed for that purpose. Each 
of the riders is equipped with a ring of feather falling ­
not merely to prevent deat h from mishap, but to allow 
them to perform stunning feats of aerial acrobatics. 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO ' S WAT1'.R0'£"EP ENCHlRlDION 