In both martial displays and in real battles against fly­
ing threats such as manticores, harpies, and outlaw wiz­
ards, the griffon riders actually leap off their mounts into 
the open air! For a breath -stealing moment, they fall like 
stones, closing in on their targets at incredible speed. 
Their opponents rarely see the death blow, distracted 
as they are by othe r mounted griffon riders. When they 
are past the danger, the free-falling riders then suddenly 
halt in the air, drifting like feathers until their griffon 
companion s swoop in and they regain their saddles. 
Working in concert with one another in this fashion, 
members of the Griffon Cavalry can rapidly eliminate 
any threat to the city- and even catch the body of the 
offender before it hits the rooftops below. 
Riders of the Griffon Cavalry are trained to stay above 
the rooftops, not because they fear crashing into towers 
and weather vanes, but because the smell of so much 
horsefiesh in the streets below can sometimes drive 
their griffons into a frenzy. 
THE W ALKING STATUES 
~~~~~~~~~~~-
Over a century ago, just one of these eight behemoth 
stat ues stood visible at the northern foot of Mount Wa­
terdeep, on a bluff called Gull Leap. Ninety feet tall, it 
resembled a bald human staring out to sea. Later events 
{discussed below) caused it to be transformed into the 
statue known today as the Sahuagin Humbled. 
When the Spellplague gripped Waterdeep in 1385 
DR, six more walking statues suddenly appeared in the 
THe Goo CATCHER LOOMING 1N THE BACKGROUND 
city, wandering to wreak havoc even as the Sahuagin 
Humbled remained motionless. The authorities and citi­
zens of Waterdeep succeeded in stopping th rec of these 
new statues, breaking the Swordmaiden and the Hawk 
Man, and sinking the God Catche r into the street up to 
its waist. Then all the statues mysteriously stopped their 
rampage just as quickly as they had begun it. Tsarra 
Chaadren, the Blackstaff at the time , couldn't command 
them to return to their former hiding places on the 
Ethereal Plane. Consequently, the city repaired itself 
and built up around them. Much later, in 1479 DR, the 
eighth statue-the Griffon-emerged from the Ethereal 
Plane to defend Ahghairon's Tower against intrusion. 
It roosted there for a time before flying to its current 
position near Peaktop Aerie on Mount Waterdeep. Once 
more, this activity seemed to be outside the Blackstaff's 
control. Thankfully, all the walkfog statues have been 
dormant for well over a decade now, serving only as 
beautiful, cyclopean rem inders of Waterdeep's might. 
THE GOD CATCHER 
This is perhaps the most famous walking statue in the 
city, thanks to its dramatic pose, its nearness to the 
Market, and the self-evident magic of its existence. The 
statue is of a well-muscled but impassiv e male human 
with its left leg sunk to the hip in the street, the result of 
a spell cast by the Blackstaff at the time of its rampage. 
Its left hand and right foot press against the ground as 
if it is trying to pull itself out. Jts right arm is raised sky-