DAV OF W O NDERS 
the co ming year, whereas individuals who do nothing 
constructive on this day can expect all mann er of mis­
fortune to rain down on them in the year ahead. 
MARPENOTH 10: REIGN OF MISRULE 
Swift on the heels of Stoneshar comes the Reign of 
Misrule. This day honors Beshaba , goddess of misfor­
tune. People of the city are expected to break trust, belie 
oaths, and disobey the normal order - as long as no 
laws are actually broken and no rift is made that can't 
be later bridged. During the Reign of Misrule , nobles 
serve meals to their servant s, children take control of 
schools, priests give worship to their god's foes, and any 
who wish to may participate in a guild's trad e. Prank s 
are played by and on many, from simple tricks to those 
requiring elaborat e planning . Sundown brings an end 
to the festivities, a nd most folk spend much of the night 
cleaning and reordering things for the following day. 
Many visitors decline to parti cipate , but doing so often 
inspires misfortun e rather than avoiding it. For fear of 
catching the bad luck of cynics, citizens do their best to 
avoid talking to anyone known to not have played along, 
or dealing with them in any way until Gods' Day. 
MARPENOTH 15: Goos' DAY 
This holiday observes the anniversary of the end of 
the Godswar in 1358 DR, when the gods of Faeriln 
returned to the heavens. Privat e shrines are brought 
out into the open, and many people wear holy symbo ls 
of their favored deities. A Gods' Day tradition in Water­
deep strictly limits the use of magic, in remembrance 
of the wild magic wrought during the Time of Troubles. 
Though not outlawed fully, spe llcasting is allowable only 
in self-defense or in cases of extreme need. 
At night , this holiday becomes solemn and serious, as 
many Waterdavians offer prayers in thanks for the lives 
they have under their gods. The Griffon Cavalry sets up 
an immense bonfire at the peak of Mount Waterdeep, 
honoring the fallen and the risen gods Myrkul, Cyric, 
Kelemvor, Mystra, Helm, and Ao who appeared here. In 
thanks for their defense during Myrkul's invasion and 
the resulting fires that raged through the Southern, 
Dock , and Cast le Wards , Gods' Day is also a semiofficial 
"Be Kind to the Guard and Watch Day" in Waterde ep. 
Feel free to participate by handing out small gifts and 
kind words, but be awar e that any gift of greater value 
than a few nibs might be interpreted as a bribe. 
MARPENOTH 30: LIAR'S NIGHT 
This holy day pays tribut e to Leira and Mask. To placate 
those deities and ward away their attention, folk of all 
walks of life don masks and costumes (magical or mun­
dane) to disguise themselves and play at being other 
than what they are. Commonly seen mask styles include 
CHAPTER 9 I VOLO'S WATERD££P ENCHtRIDTON 