APPENDIX A: MAGIC ITEMS 
This appendix describes new magic items that appear 
in the adventure, and which are presented here in alpha ­
betical order. 
Several of these items are found in the possession of 
specific NPCs: 
• Aurinax has the dragonstaff of Ahghairon. 
• jalester Silverman e has a badge of the Watch. 
• Jarlax le Baenr e has a bracer of daggers, a feather of 
diatryma summoning, a knave's eye patch, and a ring 
of truth telling. 
• Meloon Wardragon has Azuredge. 
• Vajra Safahr has the Blackstaff. 
AZUREDGE 
Weapon (battleaxe), legendary (requires attunement) 
Forged by the archwizard Ahghairon, this intelligent 
battleaxe was crafted lo defend Watcrdeep. Jts current 
wielder is a former member of Force Grey named 
Meloon Wardragon (see appendix 8), but the weapon is 
searching for a new owner. 
Azuredge has a solid steel handle etched with tiny 
runes, wrapped in blue dragon hide with a star sapphire 
set into the pommel. The axe head is forged from silver, 
electrum, and steel alloys whose edges constantly shim ­
mer with a deep blue luminescence. 
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls mad e 
with this magic weapon. The shield spell provides no de­
fense against the axe, which passes through that spell's 
barrier of magical force. 
When you hit a fiend or an undead with the axe, cold 
blue flames erupt from its blade and deal an extra 2d6 
radiant damage to the target. 
Hurling. The battleaxe has 3 charges. You can expend 
1 charge and make a ranged attack with the axe, hurling 
it as if it had the thrown property with a normal range of 
60 feet and a long range of 180 feet. Whether it hits or 
misses, the axe flies back to you at the end of the current 
turn, land ing in your open hand or al your feet in your 
space (as you choose). The axe regains all expended 
charges daily at dawn. 
mummation . While holding the axe, you can use an 
action to cause the axe to glow blue or to quench the 
glow. This glow sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius 
and dim light for an additional 30 feet. 
Sentience. Azuredge is a sentient lawful neutral 
weapon with an Intelligence of 12, a Wisdom of 15, and 
a Charisma of 15. It has hearing and darkvision out to a 
range of 120 feet. 
The weapon communicates telepathically with its 
wielder and can s peak, read, and understand Common. 
It has a calm, delicate voice. The weapon can sense the 
presence of non-lawful creatu res within 120 feet of it. 
Personality . Azuredge is sworn to protect Waterdecp, 
and it desires to be wielded by a law-abiding person 
willing to dedicat e everything to the city's defense. 
The weapon is patient and takes its time finding its 
ideal wielder. 
If someone tries to use Azuredge against its will, the 
axe can become ten times heavier than normal, and 
can magically adhere to any Medium or larger object or 
su rface it comes into contact with. Once it does so, the 
axe can 't be wielded. Nothing short of a wish spell can 
separate the axe from the item or s urface to which it is 
adhered without destroying one or the other, though the 
axe can choose to end the effect at any time. 
B ADGE OF THE WATCH 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement by someone 
designated by the Open Lord of Waterdeep) 
A badge of the Watch is given only to those who have 
earned the trust of the Open Lord of Waterdeep. The 
badge, signifying the rank of captain in Waterdeep 's City 
Watch, bears the emblem ofWaterdeep and is meant to 
be worn or carried. 
While wearing the badge, you gain a +2 bonus to AC if 
you aren 't using a shield . 
If the badge is more than 5 feet away from you for 
more than I minute. it vanishe s and harmlessly reap ­
pears on a surface within 5 feet of the Open Lord. While 
holding the badge, the Open Lord knows your location, 
provided the two of you are on the same plane of exis­
tence and your attunement to the badge hasn't ended. 
As an action, the Open Lord can touch the badge and 
end your attuncment to it. 
6AOGE OF THf WATCH 
APPENDIX A I MAGIC ITEMS 