BLACKSTAFF 
Staff, legendary (requires attunement by the Blackstaff 
heir, who must be a wizard) 
The Blackstaffis a sentient, rune -carved staff set with 
thin silver veins. It is the symbol of office for the Black­
staff, the highest-ranking wizard in Waterdeep. As the 
rightful owner of the Blackstaff, Vajra Safahr is the only 
one who can become attuned to it. The staff can. how­
ever, choose a new owner (see "Personality" below). 
The Blacksta/Thas the magical properties of a staff of 
power (see the Dungeon Master's Guide) in addition to 
the following properties. 
Animate Walking Statu es. You can expend 1 or more 
of the staff's charges as an action to animate or deacti­
vate one or more of the walking statues ofWaterdeep 
(see appendix 8). You must be in the city to use this 
property, and you can animate or deactivate one statue 
for each charge expended. An animated statue obeys 
the telepathic commands ofK helbcn Arunsun's spirit, 
which is trapped inside the staff (see "Personality" be­
low). A walking statue becomes inanimate if deactivated 
or if the staff is broken. 
Dispel Magic. You can expend 1 of the staff's charges 
as a bonus action to cast dispel magic on a creature, an 
object, or a magical effect that you touch with the tip 
of the staff. If the target is an unwilling creature or an 
object in the possession of such a creature, you must 
hit the creature with a melee attack using the Blackstaff 
before you can expend the charge to cast the spell. 
Drain Magic. This property affects only creatures 
that use spell slots. When you hit such a creature with 
a rnelee attack using the Blackstall, you can expend J of 
the staff's charges as a bonus action, causing the target 
to expend one spell slot of the highest spell level it can 
cast without casting a spell. If the target has already 
expended all its spell slots, nothing happens. Spell slots 
that are expended in this fashion are regained when the 
target finishes a long rest, as normal. 
Master of Enchantment. When you cast an enchant­
ment spell of l st level or higher whi le holding the staff, 
you can make an Intelligenc e (Arcana) check w ith a DC 
of 10 +the level of the spell. If the check succeeds, you 
cast the spell without expending a spell slot. 
Sentience. The Blackstaffis a sentient staff of neutral 
alignment, with an Intelligence of 22, a Wisdom of 15, 
and a Charisma of 18. It has hearing and darkvision out 
to a range of 120 feet, and it can communicate telepathi­
cally with any creature that is holding it. 
Personality. The staff has the spirits of aJI previous 
BlackstafTs trapped within it. Its creator, Khelben Arun­
sun, is the dominant personality among them. Like 
Khelben, the staff is extremely devious and manipu ­
lative. It prefers to counsel its owner without exerting 
outright control. The staff's primary goal is to protect 
Waterdeep and its Open Lord, currently Laeral Silver­
hand. Its secondary goal is to help its wielder become 
more powerful. 
In the event that the holder of the office of the Black­
staff no longer serves the staff's wishes, the staff ceases 
to function until it finds a worthy inheritor - someone 
whose loyalty to Waterdcep is beyond reproach . 
/\PPENOIX A I MAG IC ITEMS 
Spirit Trap. When the Blackstaff dies, the spirit of 
that individual becomes trapped in the staff along with 
the spirits of the previous Blackstaffs. (A Blackstalf 
whose spirit is trapp ed in the staff can't be raised from 
the dead.) 
Destroying the staff would release the spirits trapped 
inside it, but in that event, Khelben 's spirit can lodge 
itself inside any one piece of the staff that remains. 
The piece containing Khelbcn's spirit has the staff's 
Sentience property but none of its other properties. As 
long as this piece of the staff exists, Khelbeo's spirit can 
make the staff whole again whenever he wishes . When 
the staff is remade, the spirits of the previous Black­
staffs become trapped inside it again. 
BRACER OF FLYING DAGGERS 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
This armba nd appears to have thin daggers strapped to 
it. As an action, you can pull up to two magic daggers 
from the bracer and immediately hurl them, making a 
ranged attack with each dagger. A dagger vanishes if 
you don't hurl it right away, and the daggers disappear 
right after they hit or miss. The bracer never runs out 
of daggers. 
LoRo's ENSEMBLE 