DRAGONSTAFF OF AHGHAIRON 
Staff, legendary (requires attunement) 
While holding the dragonstaff of Ahghairon, you have 
advantage on saving throws against che speUs and 
breath weapons of dragons, as well as the breath 
weapons of other creatures of lhe dragon type (such as 
dragon turtles). 
A creature of the dragon type that you touch with the 
slaff can move through the city ofWaterdeep, ignoring 
Ahghairon's dragonward (see "Ahghairon's Dragon ­
ward," page 6). This effect lasts until the creature is 
touched again by the staff or until a time you proclaim 
when you confer the benefit. 
The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can 
expend 1 charge as an action to cast the command spell. 
If you target a dragon with this casting, the dragon has 
disadvantage on its saving throw. The staff regains ldlO 
charge s daily al dawn. 
FEATHER OF DIATRYMA SUMMONING 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
This bright plume is made from the feather of a dia­
tryma (pronounced dee-ah-TRY-mah), a Large, colorful, 
flightless bird native to the Underdark. If you use an ac­
tion to speak the command word and throw the feather 
into a Large unoccupied space on the ground within 5 
feet of you, the feather becomes a living diatryma for up 
to 6 hours, after which it reverts to its feather form. 1t 
reverts to feather form ea rly if it drops to 0 hit points or 
if you use an action to speak the comma nd word again 
while touching the bird. 
When the diatryma reverts to feat her form, the 
magic of the feather can't be used again until 7 days 
have passed. 
The diatryma uses the statistics of an axe beak, 
except that its beak deals piercing damage instead of 
slashing damage. The creatu re is friendly to you and 
your companions, and it can be used as a mount. It un­
derstands your languages and obeys your spoken com­
mands. Jf you issue no commands, lhe diatryma defends 
itself but takes no other actions. 
KNAVE'S EYE PATCH 
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement) 
While wearing this eye patch, you gain these benefits: 
You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
that rely on sight. 
• If you have the Sunlight Sensitivity trait, you are unaf­
fected by the lrait. 
• You are immune to magic that allows other creatures 
lo read your thoughts or determine whether you are 
lying. Creatures can communicate telepath ically with 
you only if you allow it. 
LORD'S ENSEMBLE 
Wondrous item. very rare (requires attunement by a 
creature with a humanoid build) 
The Masked Lords ofWaterdeep don this ensemble 
when meeting with one another. This raiment renders 
each lord indistinguishable from the others . The en­
semble consists of three pieces a helm, an amulet, 
and a robe - that function as a sing le magic item when 
worn together, but only withi n the city ofWaterdeep and 
its sewers. You become attuned to the ensemble as a 
sing le item. 
Lord 's Helm. This bucket helm covers your head and 
concea ls your face. Screens over the eyes help to shroud 
your identity without blindin g you. While you wear the 
helm, your voice is magically altered to sound gender­
less, and you are immune to magic that allows other 
creat ures to read your thoughts, to determine whether 
you are lying, to know your alignment, or to know your 
creature type. Creatures can commun icate telepathi­
cally with you only if you allow it. 
Lord's Amulet . This amulet bears the crest of Water­
deep. It functions as an amulet of proof against detection 
and location. 
Lord's Robe. This elegant robe functions as a ring 
of free action, and it creates the illusion that you have a 
nondesc ript. androgynous humanoid build and stand 6 
feet tall. 
PAPER BIRD 
Wondrous item. uncommon 
After you write a message of fifty words or fewer on this 
magic sheet of parchment and speak a creatu re's name, 
the parchment magicaJly folds into a Tiny paper bird 
and Hies to the recipient whose name you uttered. The 
recipient must be on the same plane of existence as you, 
otherwise the bird turns into ash as it takes flight. 
The bird is an object that has 1 hit point, an Armor 
Class of 13, a flying speed of 60 feet, a Dexterity of 16 
PAPER 15tRO 
APPENDIX A I MAGIC ITEMS 