tremendous amount of coin and a mass sacrifice of un­
fortunate people. While Victoro hunts for Dagult Never­
ember's lost cache of gold. Ammalia makes plans to host 
a poisoned feast in celebration of Founders' Day. 
Ammalia is well mannered, well read, well traveled, 
and exceptionally shrewd. She is known for driving a 
ha rd bargain. Her hobby is lepidoptero logy. and her es­
tate has the most beautiful butterfly garden. She allows 
her youngest children to play in the garden under her 
supervision. 
A PPR ENTICE W I ZARD 
Apprentice wizards are novice arcane spellcasters who 
serve more experienced wizards or attend school. They 
perform menial work. such as cooking and cleaning, in 
exchange for education in the ways of magic. 
APPRENTICE WIZARD 
Medium humanoid (any race). any alignment 
Armor Class 10 
Hit Points 9 (2d8) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
10 (+O) 
DEX 
10 (+O) 
CON 
10 (+O) 
Skills Arcana +4, History +4 
Senses passive Perception 10 
INT 
14 (+2) 
WIS 
10 (+O) 
Languages any one language (usually Common) 
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP) 
CHA 
11 (+0) 
Spel/casting. The apprentice is a 1st-level spellcaster. Its spell­
casting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with 
spell attacks). It has the following wizard spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): fire bolt, mending, prestidigitation 
1st level (2 slots): burning hands, disguise self. shield 
ACTIONS 
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (ld 4) piercing damage. 
A PPEN DI X BI MONS f ERS ANO N PCS 
AURI N Al< I N OWl\RP' F"ORM 
AUR INAX 
Aurinax is a male adult gold dragon who can freely 
ignore Ahghairon s dragonward (see "Ahghairon's Drag­
onward," page 6) and reside in the city. Maaril, the 
archmage who last wielded the dragonslaff of Ahghai­
ron, was Aurinax's friend, and invited the dragon to stay 
with him in the city's Dragon Tower. Shortly before the 
Spellplague, Maaril went mad and left Waterdeep. en­
trusting the dragonstaff of Ahghairon to Aurinax. (See 
appendix A for information on the dragonstaff.) 
When Dagult Neverember became the Open Lord 
of Waterdeep, he cut a dea l with the dragon. Under its 
terms, Aurinax could keep the dragonstaff of Ahghairon 
in exchange for guarding a vault beneath the city. When 
Neverember eventually removed the treasure from 
the vault, Aurinax and the dragonstaffcould return to 
the Dragon Tower. As it happens, no one has come to 
remove the treasure, and the faithful Aurinax has re­
mained in the vault. The vault is warded against scrying 
magic, and the re's no one left in Waterdeep who knows 
about Aurinax or the whereabouts of the dragonstaff. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Aurinax is an adult gold dragon . He often assumes the 
form of an elderly gold dwarf named Barak Clangham­
mer. who uses the dragonstaff as a walking stick. 