CITY WATCH 
The City Watch is Waterdeep's police force, charged 
with keeping the peace and apprehending criminals. 
City Wacch pacrols are usually four to twelve persons 
strong . A patrol expecting trouble might also have rein­
forcement in the form of a priest (on loan from one of 
the local temples) or a mage (from the Watchful Order of 
Magists and Protectors). 
RANKS IN THE C ITY WATCH 
Members of the City Watch are called officers. Their 
ranks are, from lowest to highest: 
Constable 
Sergeant (armar) 
Lieutenant (civilar) 
Captain (senior civilar; leader of a watch station) 
Major (ward civilar; one per city ward) 
Commander of the Watch 
The Watch also includes a Senior Armsmaster, who 
reports to the Commander of the Watch and is in charg e 
of supp lies. The Commander of the Watch reports to the 
Open Lord, Laeral Silverhand. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Most City Watch members are vete ra ns. Some of the 
highest-ranked members are kni ghts. All City Watch 
members wear helmets and ca rry clubs while on duty. 
APl'ENDIX B I MONSTERS AND NPCS 
THE D OOM RAIDERS 
The Doom Raiders were five unscrupulous adventurers 
who liked to plunder lich lairs (called "dooms" by some). 
They gave up adventuring to join the Black Network 
and came to Waterdeep three years ago with plans to 
establish a Zhentarim foothold in the city. In that time, 
they have forged alliances with various nobles and 
guilds and run afoul of others, all the while fending off 
Harper spies. 
DAVIL STARSONG 
Within the Waterdeep division of the Black Network, 
Davil is accorded the title of Master of Opportunities 
and Negotiations because he's good at sniffing out lucra ­
tive business deals, and he makes friends easily. 
Like many sun elves, Davi! has a n affinity for magic 
and is gifted with the kind of patience that comes with 
a long life span. Unlike most, he's not the least bit 
pretentious or aloof. He keeps a room at the Yawning 
Portal and does all his business in the establ ishm ent's 
taproom. He negotiates deals with grace and aplomb, 
even while drunk, and uses an elven lute as a spe ll­
casting focus. 
Davit can put the characters in contact with other 
leaders of the Black Network's Waterdeep division, 
namely Istrid Horn (if they need a loan), Skeemo Weird­
bottle (if they need magic), Tashlyn Yafeera (if they need 
weapons or mercenaries), and Ziraj the Hunter (if they 
need a highly skilled assassin). 