lSTRfD HORN 
lstrid is regarded as the Black Network's Master of 
Trade and Coin in Waterdeep. The shield dwarf oper­
ates an illegal lending operation out of a heavily guarded 
warehouse in the Dock Ward. offering loans to those in 
need of coin. Her interest rates are comparable to those 
of her competitors {including noble families of bankers 
such as the Cassalanters and the Irlingstars), but the 
penalties for not paying back lstrid's loans are severe. 
lstrid worships Vergadain, the dwarven god of wealth 
and luck. She likes having others indebted to her, and 
she employs thugs and enforcers to collect on her loans. 
Jf those resources prove inadequate, Istrid can call on 
her old adventuring companions for assistance. 
SKEEMO WEJRDBOTTLE 
Skeemo (see the next page for his stat block) became the 
Master of Magic for the Black Network in Waterdeep, 
setting up a cover in the Trades Ward in the form of a 
cramped little shop called Weirdbottle's Concoctions. 
Most of his potions and elixirs are nonmagical, but he 
crafts magical ones for his Zhent friends. 
Skeemo can add ·'sellout'' to his credentials, hisser ­
vices having been bought by House Gralhund and tbe 
Black Network operatives loyal to Mansboon. The rock 
gnome uses paper birds (see appendix A) to send mes­
sages both to his new friends and his old ones. 
DAVIL STARSONG 
Medium humanoid (elf), neutral 
Armor Class 15 (chain shirt) 
Hit Points 82 (1Sd8 + 15) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
10 (+O) 
DEX 
14 (+2) 
CON 
12 (+l) 
Saving Throws Dex +5, Cha +6 
INT 
16 (+3) 
WIS 
12 (+l) 
+: 
CHA 
17 (+3) 
Skills Arcana +6, History +6, Insight +4, Perception +4, 
Performance +6 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 I 
language s Common, Draconic, Dwarvish, Elvish 
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP) - _ ~l 
Fey Ancestry. Davil has advantage on saving throws against be· 
ing charme d, and magic can' t put him to sleep. 
Spel/casting. Davil is a 12th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell at· 
tacks). He has the following bard spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): mage hand, mending, minor illusion, vi· 
cious mockery 
1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, disguise self, sleep 
2rid level (3 slots): crown of madness, invisibility, suggestion 
3rd level (3 slots): nondetection, sending, tongues 
4th level (3 slots): compulsion,freedom of movement, polymorph 
5th level (2 slots): dominate person, greater restoration 
6th level (1 slot): Otto's irresistible dance 
AC TION S 
Dagger. Me/ee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing a amage. 
TASHLYN YAFEERA 
Tashlyn (see the next page for her stat block) is Master 
of Arms and Mercenaries for the Waterdeep Zhentarim. 
In this role, she provides armor, weapons, and training 
to sellswords on the Black Network's payroll. 
Tashlyn bas established a useful cover by serving as 
a bodyguard to Vorondar Levelstone, a dwarf magister 
stationed at the South Gate. She likes the dwarf and has 
earned his confidence, allowing her to reach the rank of 
captain in the City Guard. In that position, she watches 
over traffic that passes through the gate-and ensures 
that her associates in the Black Network can come and 
go freely. 
Born to a well-off family in Ca1imshan, Tashlyn bas 
an unfettered sense of superiority. Quick to anger, she 
hates to back down from a light. She respects anyone 
who can best her in melee combat. 
!STRID HORN 
Mediu{n humanoid (dwarf), neutral evil 
Armor Class 18 (plate) 
Hit Points 117 (18d8 + 36) 
Speed 25 ft. 
STR 
12 (+ 1) 
DEX 
10 (+O) 
CON 
14 (+2) 
INT 
11 (+0) 
Saving Throws Con +S, Wis +6 
Skills Intimidation +4, Religion +3 
Damage Resistances poison 
"l.l'. 
WIS 
, 7 (+3) 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13 
languages Common , Dwarvish 
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP) 
CHA 
13 (+ l) 
Dwarven Resilience. lstrid has advantage on saving throws 
agains t being poisoned. 
Spel/casting. lstrid is a 9th-level spellcaste r. Her spellcas ting 
ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell at­
tacks). She has the following cleric spells prepared : 
Cantnps (at wilJ): light, mending, sacred flame, spare the dying 
1st level (4 slots}: divine favor, guiding bolt, healing word, 
sbield of faith 
. ~ 
2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, magic weapon, hold person, 
silence, spiritual weapon 
3rd level (3 slots): beacon_ of hope, crusader's mantle, dispel 
magic, revivify, spirit guardians, water walk 
4th level (3 slots): banishment.freedom of movement, guardian 
of faith, stones kin 
5th levet (1 slot): flame strike, mass cure wounds, hold monster 
ACTION S 
Multiattack. lstrid makes two melee attacks. 
Maul. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 8 (2d6 + 1) bludgeoning damage . 
Treasure Sense (3/Day). lstrid magically pinpoints precious 
metal s and ston es, such as coins and gems , within 60 ~ 
feet o f her. ~ 
APPENDIX B I MONSTERS ANO NPCS 