ZIRAJ THE HUNTER 
Ziraj is a half-ore hunter who wields an oversized bow 
Lhat shoots correspondingly large arrows. He is the 
Master of Assassination for the Black Network . If Ziraj 
sets out to kill someone, it's because one of his friends 
(Oavil, Istrid. Skeemo, or Tashlyn) asked him to. The 
characters might become Ziraj's prey, or Ziraj might 
come to their aid to eliminate a common enemy. He's 
the strong, silent type. 
The City Watch has received reports of a figure who 
haunts the rooftops of Waterdeep - a hulking shadow 
that glares from its perch, rains down death in the form 
of long black arrows, and slinks off without so much as a 
whisper. Where he comes from if he even has a home­
remains a mystery, as does the question of where he 
might show up next. 
Treasure. Ziraj wears +2 leather armor and ca rr ies 
an overs ized longbow. This unique weapon can be used 
only by a Medium or larger creature that has a Strength 
of 18 or higher. The bow shoots oversized arrow s that 
deal piercing damage equal to 2d6 +the wielder's 
Strength modifier. Its range is the same as an ordi­
nary longbow. 
Z IRAJ THE HUNTER 
Medium humanoid (half-ore), neutral evil 
Armor Class 17 (+2 leather armor) 
Hit Points 153 (l 8d8 + 72) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
18 (+4) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
CON 
18 (+4) 
Saving Throws Wis +S, Cha +5 
INT 
11 (+O) 
WIS 
14 (+2) 
CHA 
15 (+2) 
Skills Athletics +7, Intimidation +5, Stealth +7, Survival +S 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Ore 
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP) 
Spellcasting. Ziraj is a lOth·level spe llcaster. His spellcasting 
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with spell at· 
tacks). He has the following paladin spells prepared: 
lst level (4 slots): command, protection from evil and good, thun· 
derous smite 
2nd level (3 slots): branding smite, find steed 
3rd level (2 slots): blinding smite, dispel magic 
A CTIO N S 
Multiattack. Ziraj makes three attacks with his glaive or with 
his oversized longbow. 
C/aive. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach S ft., one target. 
Hit: 9 (ld lO + 4) slashing damage. 
Oversized Longbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, range 
150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage. 
Dreadful Aspect (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). Ziraj 
exudes magical menace. Each enemy within 30 feet of him 
must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be fright· 
ened ofZiraj for l minute. If a frightened enemy ends its turn 
more than 30 feet away from Ziraj, the enemy can repeat the 
saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. 
DROW GUNS LI NGE R 
Firearms aren't widely available in the North , but some 
members of Bregan O'aerthe are equipped with Lan­
tanese pistols, bullets, and packets of smokepowder. 
These drow gunslingers are expert pistoleers, as skilled 
with their guns as the best archers are with their bows. 
fEL'REKT L AFEEN 
Fel'rekt is a male drow who was born female. Unhappy 
with the treatment of males in his society, he petition ed 
to join Bregan D'aerthe. jarlaxle took a shine to Fel'rekt 
almost immediately, and the young drow has since be­
come one ofjarlaxle"s most loyal lieutenants. Eager to 
prove himself, Fel'rekt is quick to volunteer for tasks and 
hurls himself into combat with verve. 
Fel'rekt and Krebbyg Masq'il'yr are close friends 
and work as a team, trading banter and jokes at their 
enem ies' expense. Fel'rekt lacks the cruelty common to 
most drow, and he won't kill an adversa ry unless he is 
left with no other choice. 
DROW GUNSLING ER 
Medium humanoid (elf), any alignment 
Armor Class 18 (studded leather, shield) 
Hit Points 84 (13d8 + 26) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
13 (+1) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
CON 
14 (+2) 
• 
INT 
11 (+O) 
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +4, Wis +3 
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +8 
WIS 
13 (+l) 
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 13 
Languages Elvish, Undercommon 
Challenge 4 (1 ,100 XP) 
CHA 
14 (+2) 
Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws against 
being charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep. 
Gunslinger. Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature or attack· 
ing at long range doesn' t impose disadvantage on the drow's 
ranged atta ck rolls with a pistol. In addition, the drow ignores 
half cover and three·quarters cover when making ranged at· 
tacks with a pistol. 
Innate Spel/casting. The drow's spellcasting ability is Charisma 
(spell save DC 12). It can innately cast the following spells, re· 
quiring no material components: 
At will: dancing lights 
1/day each: darkness.faerie fire, levitate (self only) 
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the drew has disadvan· 
tage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
that rely on sight. 
A CTIO N S 
Multiattack. The drow makes two shortsword attacks. 
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach S ft., one 
target. Hit: 7 (ld6 + 4) piercing damage. 
Poisonous Pistol. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30/90 
ft., one target. Hit: 9 (ldlO + 4) piercing damage plus 11 (2dl0) 
poison damage. 
APPENDI X B I MONSTE RS AN O NP OS 201 