• 
02 
DROW GU N SLI N GER 
Game Statistics . Fel'rekl Lafeen is a neutral good 
draw gunslinger . In addition to his weapons, he carr ies 
four packets of smokepowder(see appendix A) and a 
pouch containing twenty pistol bullets. 
KREBBYG MASQ.
1
IL'YR 
Krebbyg's house was destroyed long ago. leaving him 
with no connection to his old life in the Underdark. He is 
young a nd rash. 
Krebbyg works closely with Fel'rekt Lafeen, and the 
two collabo rate well despite their disparate alignments. 
Krebbyg prefe rs to follow Fel'rekt's lead, letting him do 
most of the th inking and talking. 
Game Statistics. Krebbyg Masq'il'yr is a chaotic neu­
tral drow gunslinger . In addition to his weapons, he 
ca rries four packets of smokepowder (see appendix A) 
and a pouch containing twenty pistol bullets. 
SoLU-UN XrnRINDAS 
Soluun is a sadistic, fanat ical bully who is fiercely loyal 
to Bregan D'aerthe, and to Jarlaxle in particular. His 
younger brother. Nar'I, has infiltrated the Xanathar 
Guild. Soluun considers Nar'I a weakling who turn ed to 
arcane magic by way of compensation, and he has never 
had much faith in his brother or his abilities . 
Soluun has a burning hatred of surface elves and half­
elves. having been taught from a young age to kill them 
APPENDIX BI MONSTERS AND NPCS 
as oppo rtu nity permits. When not engaged in a Bregan 
D'aerthe ope ration, Soluun spends his nights haunting 
the da rkened streets and alleys of Wate rdeep, looking 
for solita ry elves or half-elves to pick off. He conceals 
his nighttime escapades as well as he can, but Jarlaxle, 
Fel'rekt, and Krebbyg know what he's up to. 
Game Statistics. Soluun Xibrindas is a neut ral evil 
drow gunslinger , with these changes: 
Soluu n wields a scimitar instead of a sho r tsword (it 
deals slashing damage instead of piercing damage). 
He wears a pair of drow-made boots of elven kind. 
• In addit ion to his weapons, he carries four packets of 
smokepowde r (see appendix A) and a pouch contain­
ing twenty pistol bullets. 
D URNAN 
Durnan is the owner and proprietor of the Yawning 
Portal. Although he looks like a middle -aged man whose 
best days are beh ind him, Durnan has a sharp mind 
and can still sw ing a swo rd when he must. He doesn't 
like talking about his past, and he won't reveal anyt hing 
about his time as an adventure r. 
If Durnan has any living family members, he doesn't 
speak of them. He rarely says two words when one will 
do. He has a dark sense of hum or and spares no pity on 
those who take the risk of entering Undermountain. 
He keeps Grimvau lt, his magic greatsword, within 
reach under the bar, and ca n chop tables in half with it if 
he so desires . He also can pull out a double crossbow (a 
heavy crossbow with reduced range that fires two bolts 
at the same target). Still, if he gets involved in a brawl, 
he prefers fighting with fists or a well-flung tankard . 
Durnan doesn't often venture far from the Yawning 
Portal, using his employees to run errands for him 
as needed. If he's feeling cha ritable, he might gently 
discou rage likable "nobod ies" from venturing into Un­
dermo untain, if he thinks they wouldn't survive. He can 
also direct adventurers toward tavern regulars who 
might be able to help them or offer useful information . 
FLOON BLAGMAAR 
Floan, a native Waterdavian in his early thirties, is a 
handsome fellow but not very bright. He used to work 
as an escort in festha lls but is cu rrently unemployed. 
Several months ago, he came upon a married noble en­
gaging in some indiscreet behavior, and now lives off the 
generous bribe he is being paid to keep silent. 
With friends all over the city, Floon spends most of 
his time drinking and carousing . He gets by on his 
looks and doesn't know what to do with his life, and has 
shown little interest in working for a living. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Floon is a chaot ic good Illus kan human commoner with 
an Intelligence of 7 (-2) and a Cha risma of 13 (+l). He 
speaks Common . 