GAZER 
A gazer is a tiny manifestation of a beholder's dreams. 
It resembles the beholder who dreamed it into exis­
tence, but its body is only 8 inches wide, and it has 
only four eyestalks. The beholder can see through the 
gazer's eyes and uses it to spy on enemies as well as its 
other minions. 
A gazer can't speak any languag es but can approxi­
mate mimicking words and sentences in a high-pitched, 
mocking mann er. A lone gazer avoids picking fights with 
creatures that are Medium or larger, but a pack of them 
might take on larger prey. A gazer might follow human ­
oids in its territory , noisily mimicking their speech and 
generally being a nuisance, until they leave the area, bul 
it flees if confronted by something it can't kill. 
DURNAN 
Medium humanoid (human), neutral 
Armor Class 16 (elven chain) 
Hit Points 144 (17d8 + 68) 
Speed 30 ft . 
STR 
18 (+4) 
DEX 
15 (+2) 
CON 
18 (+4) 
Saving Throws Str +8, Con +8 
Skills Ath letics +8, Perception +5 
Senses passive Perception 15 
languages Common , Dwarvish 
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) 
INT 
13 (+l ) 
WIS 
12 (+l) 
CHA 
10 (+O) 
.. 
Special Equipment. Durnan wields a sword of sharpness (great· 
sword) called Grimvault. He wears boots of striding ond spring· 
ing, elven chain, and a ring of spell turning. 
Indomitable (Recharges after a Long Rest). Durnan can reroll a 
saving throw that he fails. He must use the new roll. 
Spell Turning. While wearing his ring of spell turning, Durnan 
has advantage on saving throws against any spell that target s 
only him (not in an area of effect) . If Durnan rolls a 20 for the 
save and the spell is 7th level or lower, the spell has no effect 
on him and instead targets the caster, using the slot level, spell 
save DC, attack bonus, and spe llcasting ability of the caster . 
A CTIONS 
Multiattack. Durnan makes four melee weapon attacks . 
Crimvault. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. , one 
targ et. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is an 
object, the hit instead deals 16 slashing damage. If the target 
is a creature and Durnan rolls a 20 on the d20 for the attack 
roll, the target takes an extra 14 slashing damage, and Durnan 
rolls another d20. On a roll of 20, he lops off one of the target 's 
limbs , or some other part of its body if it is limbless. 
Double Crossbow. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 
60/240 ft., one target . Hit: 13 (2dl0 + 2) piercing damage. 
GAZER 
Tiny aberration, neutral evil 
Armor Class 13 
Hit Points 13 (3d4 + 6) 
Speed 0 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover) 
STR 
3 (-4) 
DEX 
17 (+3) 
Saving Throws Wis +2 
CON 
14 (+2) 
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5 
Condition Immunities prone 
INT 
3 (-4) 
WIS 
10 (+O) 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 
languages -
Challeng e 1/ 2 (100 XP) 
CHA 
7 (-2) 
Aggressive. As a bonus action , the gazer can move up to its 
speed toward a hostile creature that it can see. 
Mimicry. The gazer can mimic simple sounds of speech it has 
heard, in any language. A creature that hears the sounds can 
tell they are imitations with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (In· 
sight) check . 
A CTIONS 
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 1 p iercing damage. 
Eye Rays. The gazer shoots two of the following magical eye 
rays at random (reroll duplicates), choosing one or two targets 
it can see within 60 feet of it: 
1. Dazing Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 
12 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed until the start of the 
gaze r's next turn. While the target is charmed in this way, its 
speed is halved, and it has disadvantage on attack rolls. 
2. Fear Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 12 
Wisdom saving throw or be frightened until the start of the gaz. 
er's next turn . 
3. Frost Ray. The targeted creature must succeed on a DC 12 
Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) cold damage. 
4. Telekinetic Ray. If the target is a creature that is Medium or 
smaller, it must succeed on a DC 12 Strength saving throw or 
be moved up to 30 feet directly away from the gazer. 
If the target is an object weighing 10 pounds or less that 
isn't being worn or carried , the gazer moves it up to 30 feet in 
any direct ion . The gazer can also exert fine control on objects 
with this ray, such as manipulating a simple too l or opening a 
container. 
APPENDIX B I MONSTERS AND NPCS 