HLAM 
This venerab le human monk lives in a cave halfway up 
the side of Mount Waterdeep. Hlam is the grand mas­
ter of the Order of the Even-Handed, a small monastic 
group devoted to Tyr. Would-be students periodically 
visit him to learn the Way of the Sacred Fists, which 
combines cleric magic and monk training. They usually 
return to the city confused, bruised, and not inclined to 
visit again. 
In times of great peril, Hlam can be called on to help. 
Sometimes he offers pearls of wisdom, and sometimes 
he descends from his cave to set things right with fist­
icuffs. He can show up at any point in the story as a 
helpful figure, and the characters can visit him in his 
cave if they need guidance or training. The Order of the 
Gauntlet considers him a staunch ally. 
Hlam is immun e to disease and doesn't require food 
or water. Although he ages, he suffers none of the frailty 
of old age. 
H LAM 
Medium humanoid (l]uman), fawful good 
Armor Class 22 (Unarmored Defense) 
Hit Points 137 (25d8 + 25) 
Speed 60 ft. 
STR 
11 (+O) 
DEX 
24 (+7} 
CON 
13 (.+-1} 
Saving Throws Str +5, Dex +12 
Skills Athletics +5, Religion +7 
Damage Immunities poison 
INT 
14 (+2) 
WIS 
21 (+5) 
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened , poisoned 
Senses passive Perception 15 
Languages all spoken languages 
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP) ' 
.. 
CHA 
14 (+2) 
Spel/casting.J-i lam is a 5th-level spellcaster . His spellcasting 
ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell at­
tacks). He has the following cleric spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): guidance, light, sacred flame, spare the dying 
1st level (4 slots): detect evil and good, healing word, sanctuary, 
shield of faith 
2nd level (3 slots): calm emotions, prayer of healing, silence 
3rd level (2 slots): protection from energy. remove curse, sending 
Evasion. If Hlam is subjected to an effect that allows him to 
make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, he 
instead takes no damage ifhe succeeds on the saving throw, 
and only half damage if he fails. He can't use this trait if he's 
incapacitated. 
Magic Unarmed Strikes. Hlam's unarmed strikes are magical. 
Unarmored Defense. While Hlam is wearing no armor and 
wielding no shield, his AC includes his Wisdom modifier. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. Hlam attacks three times using' his unarmed 
strike, darts, or both. 
Unarmed Strike. Melee Weapon Atiack: +12 to hit, reach 5 
ft., one target. Hit: 12 (ldlO + 7) bludgeoning damage. If the 
APPENDIX 8 I MONSTERS AND NPCS 
target is a creature, Hlam can choose one of the following addi­
tional effects: 
• The target must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or 
drop one item it is holding (H lam's choice). 
• The target must succeed on a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw 
or be knocked prone. 
• The target must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving 
throw or be stunned until the end of Hlam's next turn. 
Dart. Ranged Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, range 20/60 ft., one 
target. Hit: 9 (ld 4 + 7) piercing damage. 
Quivering Palm (Recharge 6). Melee Weapon Attack:+ 12 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: The target must make a DC 18 
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target is re­
duced to 0 hit points. On a successful save, the target takes 55 
(lOdlO) necrotic damage . 
Wholeness of Body (Recharges after a Long Rest). Hlam regains 
60 hit points. 
REAC TIONS 
Deflect Missile. In respons e to being hit by a ranged weapon 
attack, Hlam deflects the missile. The damage he takes from 
the attack is reduced by ldlO + 27. If the damage is reduced to 
0, Hlam catches the missile if it's small enough to hold in one 
hand and he has a hand free. 
Slow Fall. Hlam reduces the bludgeon ing damage he takes 
from a fall by 100. 
LEGENDA RY A CTIONS 
Hlam can take 3 legendary actions, choosin g from the optio ns 
below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time 
and only at the end of another creature 's turn. Hlam regains 
spent legendary actions at the sta rt of his turn . 
Quick Step. Hlam moves up to his speed without provoking 
opportunity attacks. 
Unarmed Strike (Costs 2 Actions). Hlam makes one un­
armed strike. 
Invisibility (Costs 3 Actions). Hlam becomes invisible until 
the end of his next turn. The effect ends if Hlam attacks or 
casts a spell. 