MELOO N WARDR AGON 
Meloon is a handsome, formidable warrior in his prime. 
who serves the goddess Tymora and loves a good fight. 
His friends - among them Renaer Neverember and 
Vajra Safahr - describe him as honest. optimistic . and 
extraordina rily lucky. Until recently. he was a member 
of Force Grey and reported directly to the Blackstaff. ln 
recent months, Meloon has spent mueb of his time at the 
Yawning Portal. 
Three months ago, out of boredom. Meloon accompa­
nied a fledgling band of adventurers on an expedition to 
Undermountain. There, his luck ran out. While resting 
in the dungeon, the adventuring party was attacked by 
monsters unleashed by Xanathar - including a number 
of intellect devourers. One of the creatures succeeded in 
magically devouring and replacing Meloon's brain, turn­
ing the champion of Tymora into a puppet. After finish­
ing off his unsuspecting companions, Meloon returned 
to Waterdcep as a Xanathar Guild spy. 
The intellect devourer that inhab its Meloon's skull was 
bred by Nihiloor, a mind flayer in Xanathar's employ. It 
knows everyth ing Meloon knew, and Meloon behaves 
much as he did before his descent into Undermountain. 
He hangs out at the Yawning Portal. tries to bond with 
adventurers, and offers a helping hand whenever doing 
so feels appropriate. The intellect devoure r's primary 
goals are to steer adventurers away from Undermoun­
tain and get them to undertake quests that further 
the aims of Xanathar. Such quests usually involve the 
eradication of Xanathar's enemies, and Meloon is all too 
eager to fight alongside those who fall for his ruse. 
MELOON WARDRAGON 
Medium humanoid (human), neutral evil 
Armor Class 18 (plate) 
Hit Points 143 (22d8 + 44) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
20 (+5) 
DEX 
15 (+2) 
CON 
14 (+2) 
Saving Throws Str +9, Con +6 
Skills Athletics +9, Survival +6 
INT 
10 (+O) 
WIS 
14 (+2) 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages Common, Deep Speech, telepathy 60 fl 
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP) 
-
CHA 
15 (+2) 
Special Equipment. Meloon wields Azuredge (see appendix A) 
but can't attune to it, and thus gains none of its benefits. 
Indomitable (2/Day). Meloon can reroll a saving throw that he 
fails. He must use the new roll. 
Second Wind (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). As a bo­
nus action, Meloon can regain 20 hit points. 
-ACTIONS 
Multiattack. Meloon makes four attacks with Azuredge. 
Azuredge. Melee Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 
(1dl2 + 5) slashing damage. 
APP ENDIX 8 I MONSTF.RS ANO NPCS 
ADJUSTED GAME STATISTICS 
If Meloon is killed and raised from the dead. his true 
self is restored and his statistics change as follows: 
Meloon is neutral good. 
He loses his telepathy, and his ability to speak and un­
derstand Deep Speech. 
• He can attune to Azuredge (see appendix A). 
M IRT 
Once known as Mirt the Merciless and the Old Wolf, 
Mirt made a fortune and carved out a reputation as an 
adventurer and philanderer. Today, an older and wiser 
Mi rt serves as one of the Masked Lords, a Harper, and 
a close advisor to Laeral Silverhand. The years have not 
worn him down, and though he has grown soft in the 
flesh, he remains deceptively strong, vigorous, and clear 
of mind. Mi rt has survived the passing of centur ies by 
means of magic, and of all the Masked Lords, he is the 
least concerned with conceal ing his identity. 
Despite his prodigious girth, Mirt can move with good 
speed when he must, and he hasn't let his adventuring 
skills wither. His wife, Asper, passed away several years 
ago, and his rambling mansion has seen better days. 
Mirt spends his days embroiled in politics and whiles 
away his nights in drink and debauchery. 