12 
NIHILOOR 
The illithid Nihiloorworks for Xanathar, spending its 
days creating intellect devourers and setting them loose 
in the sewers ofWaterdeep. Each intellect devourer at­
tacks the first humanoid it encounters, us ing its victim 
as a puppet to spy on the city and relay information back 
to Nihi loor. Occasionally, an intellect devourer is in­
structed to seek out a particular kind of target, such as a 
membe r of the City Guard or the City Watch. Sometimes 
its instruct ions will include orders to capture specific 
Waterdavians and bring them to Skullport, where they 
can be enslaved or ransomed. 
Nihiloor has an alien mind, and it considers itself 
Xanathar's equal. It has no interest in supplanting the 
beho lder, however, preferring to operate in the shadows 
and pursue its own fell schemes. 
GAME STATISTICS 
Nihiloor is a mfad flaye r. 
NtHhOOR 
APPENDIX B 1 MONSTERS AND NPCS 
N IMBLEWRIGHT 
A nimblew right is a magical construct created to serve 
as a guard or assassin. Composed predominantly of 
lightweight wood and powered by magic, it can pass for 
humanoid while wearing clothing. Some nimblewrights 
wear plain clothing, while others are clad in flashier 
attire. A nimblewright is emotionless, its face frozen in 
whatever expression was given to it by its creator. 
Duelist. A nimblewright moves like a dancer and 
fights like a swashbuckler, using dodges and parries to 
avoid damage whi le deftly skewering its foes. 
Constructed Nature. A nimblewright doesn't require 
air, food, drink, or sleep. Damage it takes can be re­
paired with mending spells, but a nimblewright reduced 
to 0 hit points is permanently destroyed. 
NIM BLEWR IGHT 
Medium construct, unaligned 
Armor Class 18 (natural armor) 
Hit Points 45 (6d8 + 18) 
Speed 60 ft. 
STR 
12 (+l) 
DEX 
18 (+4) 
Saving Throws Dex +6 
CON 
17 (+3) 
INT 
8 (-1) 
Skills Acrobatics +8, Perception +2 
WIS 
10 (+O) 
CHA 
6 (-2) 
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
nonrnagical attacks 
Condition Immunities exhaustion, frightened, petrified, 
poisoned 
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12 
Languages understands one language known to its creator but 
can't speak 
Challenge 4 (l ,100 XP) • , 
Magic Resistance. The nimblewright has advantage on saving 
throws against spells and othe r magical effects. 
Magic Weapons. The nimblewright's weapon attacks 
are magical. 
Repairable. As long as it has at least l hit point remaining, 
the nimblewright regains l hit point when a mending spell is 
cast on it. 
Sure-Footed. The nimblewright has advantage on Strength 
and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would 
knock it prone. 
ACT IO N S 
Multiattac;k. The nimblewright makes three attacks: two with 
its rapie r and one with its dagger. 
Rapier. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hiti reach S ft., one target. 
Hit: 8 (ld8 + 4) piercing damage. 
Dagger. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack ~ +6 to hit, reach S ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) piercing damage. 
REACTIONS 
Parry. The nimblewright adds 2 to Its AC against one melee at­
tack that would hit it. To do so, the nimblewright must see the 
attacker and be wielding-a melee weae,on. 