Khelben derived his name and the title of the office. 
Vajra isn't the city's most powerful wizard, but she can 
hold her own. Despite her many gifts, she still ques­
tions her ability to meet the demands of her role, and 
she rarely makes a decision without first soliciting the 
advice of the Blackstaff, which contains Khelben Arun ­
sun's spirit as well as the spirits of all the other Black­
staffs who preceded her. She also gets intelligence from 
many other sources, both through her own network of 
spies and from Harper agents. 
Vajra runs Blackstaff Academy, a school for mages, 
out of Blackstaff Tower in the Castle Ward. She is also 
in charge of Force Grey, an order of highly skilled adven­
turers who are called upon to defend the city in times 
of need. Vajra is always looking for new adventurers to 
VAJRA SAFAH R 
Medium humanoid (human), lawful neutral 
Armor Class 14 (Blockstoff; 17 with moge armor) 
Hit Points 126 (23d8 + 23) 
Speed 30 ft. 
STR 
10 (+O) 
DEX 
14 (+2) 
CON 
12 (+l) 
INT 
20 (+S) 
WIS 
11 (+O) 
CHA 
16 (+3) 
Saving Throws Str +2, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +12, Wis +7, Cha +S 
Skills Arcana +10, History +10 
Senses passive Perception 10 
Languages Common, Dwarvish, Elvish, Giant, Halfling, 
Undercommon 
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP) 
Special Equipment . Vajra wields the Blackstaff (see appendix 
A), accounted for in her statistics. Roll 2dl0 to dete rmine how 
many charges the staff has remaining. 
Magic Resistance. Vajra has advantage on saving throws 
against spells and other magical effects. 
Spellcasting. Vajra is an 18th-level spe llcaster. Her sp ellcast ing 
abi lity is Inte lligence (spell save DC 18, + 12 to hit with spell at· 
tacks). She has the following wizard spells prepared: 
Cant rips (at will): fire bolt, light, mage hand, message, pres· 
tidigitotion 
l st level (4 slots): detect magic, identify, mage armor, 
thunderwave 
2nd level (3 slots): invisibility, misty step, web 
3rd level (3 slots): counterspell,jly, sending 
4th level (3 slots): banishment, fire shield, stones kin 
5th level (3 slots): Bigby's hand, geas, telekinesis 
6th level (1 slot): chain lightning, globe of invulnerability 
7th level (1 slot):forcecage, prismatic spray 
8th level (1 slot): antimagic field, power word stun 
9th level (l slot): imprisonment 
ACTIONS 
Blacksta.ff. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
targ et. Hit: 5 (ld6 + 2) bludgeo ning damage, or 6 (l d8 + 2) 
bludgeoning damage when used with two hands. Vajra can 
expend l of the staff's charges to deal an extra 3 (ld 6) force 
dama ge on a hit. 
fill the ranks of Force Grey, and she is particularly inter­
ested in those who can bring unique skills, abilities, or 
spells to the mix. 
Several of the older and more seasoned wizards in 
Waterdeep consider Vajra an upstart, but they are smart 
enough not to challenge her. Only the Open Lord, cur­
rently Laeral Silverhand. can strip Vajra of her title. 
V11J RA SllFllHR , Ti'<E BLAC.l(STAl'F 
APPENDIX B I MONST ERS ANO :-IPCS 