BAR BRAWL IN THE YAWNING PORTAL PROVES 
that nowhere is safe from the gang war be-
t ween the Zhentarim and the Xanathar Guild. 
In this atmosphere of danger, the characters 
are offered a quest by Volothamp Geddarm. 
Volo promises a reward if they can rescu e 
his missing friend, Floon Blagmaar, who he 
fears has been caught up in the conflict. Volo's 
quest is a straightforward introduction to the streets of 
Waterdeep, providing the characters with an excuse to 
explore the city. 
In their hunt for Volo's friend, the characters might 
make allies and enemies who can resurface th roughout 
the adventure. Following the completion ofVolo's quest, 
the characters gain a home base with an add ress in 
Trollskull Alley, in Waterdeep's North Ward. From their 
new base, the characters ca n plot their own course, 
wheth er it involves interacting with Waterdeep's people, 
joining one of the city's many factions, or simply poking 
around for danger. 
WHERE TO START 
This adventure assumes that the characters have al­
ready formed a party and arc presently in the Yawning 
Portal, perhaps knocking back a pint of Shadowdark ale 
and wolfing down a plate of quipper and chips. Alterna­
tively, you can begin this adventure as the characters 
first enter the raucous tavern, or by having them all meet 
for the first time as Volo hands them their initial quest. 
TAVE RN BRAWL 
As the characters are relaxing in the taproom of the 
Yawning Portal. a fistfight breaks out. Read the follow­
ing to set the scene: 
You sit around a sturdy wooden table lit by a brightly 
burning candle and littered with plates cleared of food 
and half-drained tankards. The sounds of gamblers yell­
ing and drunken adventurers singing bawdy songs nearly 
drown out the off-key strumming of a young bard three 
tables over. 
Then all the noise is eclipsed by a shout: "Ya pig! Like 
killin' me mates, does ya?" Then a seven-foot-tall half­
orc is hit by a wild, swinging punch from a male human 
whose shaved head is covered with eye-shaped tattoos. 
Four other humans stand behind him, ready to jump 
Into the fray. The half-ore cracks her knuckles, roars, and 
leaps at the tattooed figure- but before you can see if 
blood is drawn, a crowd of spectators clusters around 
the brawl. What do you do? 
The human combatants are five members of the Xana­
thar Guild (CE human bandit s). The one with the eye­
shaped tattoos on his bald pate is their leader, Krentz. 
Their foe, Yagra Strongfist , is a half-ore employed by 
the Zhentarim (see the Yawning Portal Friendly Faces 
handout in appendix C). Yagra fights for her pride. 
CHAPTER 1 J A FRIEND IN Nl!l!D 