WHAT HAPPENED THAT NICHT? 
Volo is embarrassed to admit he might have gotten his 
friend Floon in trouble, and he resists providing all the 
details of what happened the night Floon disappear ed. 
Beset by writer's block, Volo met Floon Blagmaar for 
drinks at the Skewered Dragon two nights ago. They 
drank and gambled for a few hours, and then Volo left. 
That's the last he saw of Floon. 
Unbeknownst to Volo, not long after he departed, a 
drunken Floon met anothe r acquaintance, Lord Ren­
aer Neverember, at the tavern. The two left together, 
with Rena er offering to walk Floon hom e. Five Zhen ­
tarim thugs working for Urstul Floxin (see appendix 
B) jumped both Floon and Renaer. They took them to 
a warehouse in the Dock Ward, so they cou ld question 
Renaer - the son of Lord Dagult Neverember-a bout 
the whereabouts of the Stone of Golorr and his father's 
hidden cache of dragons. Before the interrogation could 
begin, members of the Xanathar Guild ambushed and 
killed the Zhent gua rds in the warehouse. The new 
ar rivals mistook Floon for Renaer, knocked Floon un­
consc ious, and dragged him away while Renaer hid and 
escaped their notice. 
Floon was taken to a Xanatha r Guild hideout in the 
sewers . A small gang of kenku was left behind at the 
Zhentarim warehouse to kill any other Zhents who 
might show up at the warehouse. The presence of the 
kenku has prevented Renaer from trying to leave the 
warehouse. 
FINDING FLOON 
Volo last saw Floon outside the S kewered Dragon, a 
dubious (and Zhenta rim-owned ) tavern between Net 
Street and Fillet Lane in the Dock Ward. The following 
enco unters kick off the characters' investigation. 
En route to the tavern, ·'Blood in the Streets" is a 
chance for characters to see the City Watch in action. 
If the characters decide to look around, "Searching the 
Dock Ward'" gives them a feel for their surroundings, 
and they might discover a strange place, "Old Xoblob 
S hop," that warran ts further exploration. Once they ar­
rive at their destination, "The Skewered Dragon " is an 
opportunity for the characters to get information from 
the patrons, which leads them to "Cand le Lane,"' where 
their quest continues. 
BLOOD IN THE STREETS 
As the characters travel through the Dock Ward, they 
come upon the aftermath of a bloody clash between the 
Xanat har Guild and the Zhentarim: 
As you turn a corner , you find yourselves on a street that 
has been cordoned off by the City Watch. Lying on the 
cobblestones are a half-dozen corpses, seemingly the 
victims of some terrible skirmish. Watch officers have 
disarmed and arrested three blood-drenched humans 
and are in the midst of questioning witnesses. One of 
the officers sees you. "Get on," she says. "Nothing to 
see here." 
The skirmish that occu rred here has nothing to do with 
Floon·s disapp earan ce but represents an escalation in 
the conflict between the Zhentarim a nd the Xanathar 
Guild. A dozen guards of the City Watch have arrested 
three band its and are questioning witnesses while 
waiting for wagons to take away the criminals and 
the corpses. The survivo rs of the skirmish have been 
str ipped of their weapons and forced to kneel with their 
hands on their heads. All three, loyal Zhentarim agents 
(employed by Urstul Floxin; see appendix B). are likely 
to be accused of murder. They coldly catc h the eye of 
anyone who passes by, but the City Watch won't let the 
characters anywhere near the prisone rs. 
SEARCHING THE DOCK WARD 
The Dock Ward is unsafe. You can set the mood by read ­
ing the following to the players: 
I 
Tall, dense ly packed tenements leave most of the 
ne ighbo rhood in shadow at ground level. Most of the 
streetlamps have had their glass smashed and their 
candles stolen, and the smells of salt air and excrement 
linger as you pass by rows of run-down buildings. 
On the corner of Zastrow Street and Fillet Lane is a 
shop with a peculiar window display: 
One nearby shop stands out from the others. It has a 
deep purple facade, and in its window hangs a stuffed 
beholder. Above the door hangs a sign whose elaborate 
letters spell out "O ld Xoblob Shop ." 
If the characters chec k out the shop. cont inue with "Old 
Xoblob Shop."' If they don't. they find the tavern without 
further incident; see "The Skewered Dragon"' below. 
O LD XOBLOB SHOP 
When the characters enter, they quickly get a sense of 
the strangeness of the place: 
A cloud of lavender-sc ented purple smok e trails out of 
the shop 's door as you peer inside. Every wall is painted 
purple, and every dusty knickknack on the shelves is 
dyed a deep violet. The hairless old gnome sitt ing cross­
legge d on the counter wears plum -colore d robes. His 
cheeks are decorated with nine purple face-painted eyes. 
The gnome lowers a pipe and exhales a cloud of lav-
l 
ender smoke before raising a hand. "Hail and well met! 
Come browse the shelves of the most curious curiosity 
shop in the world! " 
The shop is named after the stuffed beholder in the win­
dow-a fixture that is actually a magical sensor, through 
which Xanathar can peer whenever it wishes. 
The shopkeeper is a wizened deep gnome who spies 
for the Xanathar Guild. A few years ago, he survived 
CHAPTlR I I A FRI END IN NF.l' D 