the detonation of a gas spore in Undermountain and 
inherited some stray beholder memories . Driven by a 
compulsion to carve out his own domain, the gnome 
sett led in Waterdeep, bought the Old Xoblob Shop from 
its previous owner, and tried renaming it after himse lf, 
yet everyone kept calling it the Old Xoblob Shop. He 
therefore restored the old name and changed his name 
to Xoblob. ·'No relation to the eye tyrant hanging in the 
window!" he says . 
Trinkets . The gnome sells an assortment of trinkets. 
As the characters search the shelves, roll on the Trin­
kets tab le in chapter 5 of the Player's Handbook to de­
termine what catches their eye. Xoblob sells any trinket 
for ld6 gp. 
Floon 's Fate. The gnome doesn't know Floon by 
name, but he recognizes liis description. He is reluctant 
to share information, but offering him a new purple 
item or succeeding on a DC 13 Charisma (Intimidation 
or Persuas ion) check loosens his tongue. He says that 
Floon and a well-dressed fellow of similar appearance 
and bearing (Renaer Neverember, though the gnome 
doesn't know his name and didn't recognize him) were 
jumped outside the shop by rough-looking men in black 
leather armor. Xoblob thinks there were five attackers, 
but none of them looked familiar. One of them had a 
black tattoo of a winged snake on his neck. 
THE SKEWERED DRAGON 
The Skewered Dragon faces an alley that runs between 
Net Street and Fillet Lane in the Dock Ward, not far 
from the Old Xoblob Shop. When the characters ap­
proach it, read: 
The Skewered Dragon looks like a ruin. Both of its 
front-facing windows are smashed, and a ship's anchor is 
lodged in the roof. Through the windows, you can see a 
group of haggard patrons drinking from huge tankards. 
Floon has not been at the Skewered Dragon since the 
night of his disappearance, and the dive's dockworker 
patrons are loath to talk to strangers. A bribe or a suc­
cessful DC 13 Char isma (Intimidation or Persuasion) 
check gets them to open up. 
Floon 's Fate. Several of the regulars remember see­
ing Volo and Floon drinking together a couple of nights 
ago. After Volo left, Floon stuck around long enough to 
meet with another friend: Renaer Neverember, the son 
of Waterdeep's previous Open Lord, Dagult Neverember. 
"Chip off the old block, that one!" sneers one patron. 
'Just another spoiled, rich noble who likes to rub our 
noses in it!" says another. 
The two drank and played a few rounds of Three­
Dragon Ante before leaving around midnight. Five men 
followed them out, and no one in the tavern knows what 
happened after that. The men who left sho r tly after 
Floon and Renaer haven't returned to the tavern since, 
but they're known to frequent a warehouse on Candle 
Lane . "Look for the snake symbo l on the door," says one 
of the tavern regu lars. 
CHAPTER 1 I A FRIEND IN NEED 
CANDLE LANE 
The buildings on either side of Candle Lane are so tall 
and so tightly packed together that light touches the 
street only at highsun. 
Gloom envelops a narrow alley as dark as a dungeon­
and as odorous as one, too. Near ly all the streetlamps 
have been smashed. The on ly light that pierces the 
darkness is a faint flickering from down the lane, like a 
distant candle. 
The flickering comes from the one streetlamp still intact 
on Candle Lane, kept alight by a continual flame spell. 
A warehouse is directly across the street from the lamp, 
which illuminates a black winged snake (the symbol of 
the Zhentarim) painted above the door's handle. Char­
acters who have ties to the Zhentarim recognize the 
symbol, while others can recall its significance with a 
successful DC 10 Intelligence check. 
Z H ENTA RIM HID EOUT 
The hideout on Castle Lane (see map 1.1) is a ram­
shackle two-story warehouse. The Black Network has 
other sanctuaries in run-down buildings like this one 
throughout Waterdeep (meaning that the floor plan of 
this locale can be reused for other Zhent hideouts). 
The warehouse stands at the back of an outer yard be­
hind a high fence. The gate on the fence isn't locked. The 
building's three points of entry-a front door, a large 
warehouse loading door, and a painted-over window­
are locked. The front door has a sliding peephole that 
can be opened from the inside. Either of the doors or 
the window can be unlocked by a character who makes 
a successfu l DC 12 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, 
or can be forced open with a successful DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check. 
Knocking at the doors or the window alerts a group of 
kenku inside that someone is coming. The kenku scram­
ble to hide behind toppled furniture, making a ruckus 
that any character who has a passive Wisdom (Percep­
tion) score of 16 or higher can hear. These kenku are all 
that remain of the Xanathar Guild force that murdered 
almost everyone in the warehouse after the five Zhen­
tarim thugs captured Renaer Neverember and Floon 
Blagmaar and brought them here. Floon was taken 
away, but Renaer succeeded in staying alive by hiding. 
Now, the young noble is trying to figure out how to slip 
past the kenku, who are lazily searching the warehouse 
for loot whi le waiting to see if any more Zhents show up. 
Zl. MAIN ROOM 
The Black Network's main business is recruiting, 
training, and equipping sellswords . Crates packed with 
weapons, rations, boots, black uniforms, and other gear 
fill the warehouse. 
When the characters try to enter, determine if the four 
kenku inside are aware of their presence before reading 
the boxed text. 