THE W ATC H ARRI VE S 
Shortly after the characters find Renaer, a captain of the 
City Watch named Hyustus Staget (LG male Illuskan 
human vete ra n) leads a dozen vete rans to the ware­
house. Having received a report of suspicious activity, 
they barge in and try to prevent anyone from leaving. 
Kenku that are still alive and present are taken into 
custody, and it doesn't take long for the City Watch to 
conclude that the dead men are members of the Zhen­
tarim and the Xanathar Guild, since violent encounters 
between the two factions are becoming ever more fre­
quent. While his constab les search the warehouse, Cap­
tain Staget questions the characters. 
Captain Staget is an uptight man who helps keep the 
peace in the Dock Ward. Every shopkeeper, guild mem­
ber. innkeeper. and tavern keeper in the Dock Ward 
knows him, and most respect him regard less of their 
opinions of the City Watch in general. Staget doesn't 
believe in rumor s or gossip, he doesn 't drink, and he 
doesn't let anger get the better of him. His job is to curb 
the violence in the Dock Ward, but he has been dragging 
his heels. After all, he reasons, if the Xanathar Guild 
and the Zhentarim want to destroy eac h other, why 
not let them? 
Staget once had the warehouse under surveillance, 
but elected to pull the detail to bolster patro ls through ­
out the Dock Ward-a decision he now regrets. That sur­
veillance was part of an attempt to catch a known Zhent 
instigator named Urstu l Floxin, a "big fish'' rumored 
to be responsible for much of the recent strife. Staget 
doesn't share this information with strangers. 
Staget and Renaer recognize each other, though they 
aren't well acquainted. The involvement of a Neverem ­
ber noble prompt s the captain to be on his best behavior. 
He is prepared to overlook any crimes committed by the 
characters as long as Renaer is with them, but he gives 
them a folded sheet of parchment with the Code Legal 
written on it and enco urages them to read it. (Give the 
players a copy of the Code Legal handout in appendix C, 
if you haven't done so already.) 
If the characters ask for the Watch's help in locating 
Floon. Staget makes it clear that he won't send a force 
into the sewers in searc h of someone who might well 
be a Zhent or Xanathar Guild spy. If they appear intent 
on involving themselves further in the conflict between 
the Zhenta rim and the Xanathar Guild. Staget imparts 
some free advice before lett ing them go: 
• "Best not to meddle in criminal matters. Leave this 
dirty business to the City Watch." 
"Not all City Watch officers are as nice as me." 
"Keep the blood off the streets, okay?" (This is a 
common saying among City Watch officials, who care 
more about what happens in the city above than what 
happens in the sewers below.) 
Characters who stir up trouble in the Dock Ward are 
likely to run into Captai n Staget again. Though he is 
secretly pleased to have adventurers doing some of his 
work for him, he can't let them overshadow his own 
efforts to keep the peace without risking a reprimand 
from his superiors. 
TRACKI NG FLOON 
At this point, the characters likely know that Floon was 
kidnapped by Xanat har Guild members who mistook 
him for Renaer Neverember , and that he was taken to a 
hideout in the sewers. If the characters didn't learn from 
the kenku where Floon was taken, asking questions of 
the locals can reveal that many people saw him being 
dragged off. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investi­
gation) check or 5 gp in bribes allows the cha racters 
to trace the kidnappers' path through back alleys to a 
circ ular meta l cover inset in the pavement. The cover is 
easily lifted, revealing a ladder down into the sewers. 
NAVIGAT I NG T H E SEWE RS 
The sewers have no natural light. Characters without 
darkvision need light sources to see. 
A putrid stream flows along this sewer tunnel, which 
leads in two directions. In one direction, you see a tiny 
symbol drawn on the wall in yellow chalk: a palm-sized 
circle with ten equidistant spokes radiating out from its 
circumference. 
The hideout of the Xanathar Guild operatives who 
snatched up Floon is deep in the city's labyrinthine sew­
ers. At every location where characters must make a de­
cision about which direction to go, a symbol scrawled in 
yellow chalk- a stylized representation of Xanathar - is 
marked next to the tunnel that leads in the right direc­
tion. The symbols are erased by members of the Xana­
thar Guild or the Dungsweepers ' Guild every few days, 
but these markings have yet to be removed. 
GAZER GUARD 
Before arriving at the Xanathar Guild hideout, the char­
acters have an encounter in the sewers: 
After an hour of following signs through the tunnels, 
you come to a three-way intersection where a ladder 
leads up into a stone shaft capped by a circular metal 
cover. One of the familiar chalk symbols is marked on a 
wall nearby, and floating near the symbol is a spherical, 
grapefruit-sized creature with a bulging central eye and 
four stumpy eyestalks. It bares its teeth at you. 
A hostile gaze r (see appendix B) that is in league with 
Grum'shar, the local Xanathar Guild boss, guards this 
intersection. Once the characters defeat it, they can 
press on, following the corridor where the chalk symbol 
is located; they reach the hideout after following the cor­
rect tunnel for 5 minutes . 
Ladder. Characters who climb the ladder and push 
open the metal cover find themselves in the cellar of the 
Spouting Fish, a tavern in the Dock Ward. 
CH APTE R I I A FRIEND IN NEE D 