CREDITS 
lead Designer: Christopher Perkins 
Designers: James J. Haeck, James lntrocaso, Adam Lee, 
Matt Sernett 
Rules Development: Jeremy Crawford, Ben Petrisor, Kate Welch 
Story Consultants: Matthew Mercer, Charles Sanders 
Managing Editor: Jeremy Crawford 
lead Editor: Christopher Perkins 
Editors: Michele Carter, Scott Fitzgerald Gray, Kim Mohan 
Art Director: Kate Irwin 
Additional Art Direction: Shauna Narciso, Richard Whitters 
Graphic Designer: Emi Tanji 
Cover Illustrator: Tyler Jacobson 
Interior Illustrators: Mark Behm, Eric Belisle, Zoltan Boros, Clint 
Cearley, Sidharth Chaturvedi, Daarken, Eric Deschamps, Olga 
Drebas, leesha Hannigan, Ralph Horsley, Tyler Jacobson, Sam 
Keiser, Julian Kok, Alayna Lemmer, Christopher Moeller, Scott 
Murphy, Jim Pavelec, Claudio Pozas, Vincent Proce, Ned Rogers, 
Craig J Spearing, Jason Thompson, Cory Trego-Erdner, Richard 
Whitters. Mark Winters, Shawn Wood, Bayard Wu, Kieran Yanner 
Interior Cartographer: Dyson logos 
Poster Map: Jason Engle 
Producers: Daniel Tovar, Matt Warren, Stan! 
Product Engineer: Cynda Callaway 
Imaging Technicians: Carmen Cheung. Kevin Yee 
Art Administration: David Gershman 
Prepress Specialist: Jefferson Dunlap 
Other D&D Team Members: Bart Carroll, Pelham Greene, Ari 
Levitch, Chris Lindsay, Jeremy Martin, Shelly Mazzanoble, Mike 
Mearls, Hilary Ross, Liz Schuh, Nathan Stewart, Greg Tito, Trish 
Yochum 
Gratitude to Elliott Zastrow for his extensive research. 
Special thanks to the hundreds of playtesters whose feedback made 
this adventure more fun at every turn. 
620C4658000001 EN 
ISBN: 978-0-7869-6625·7 
First Printing: September 2018 
987654321 
FOREWORD 
A simp le question began rat tling around in my head 
over two yea rs ago as I was bidding fareweJJ to Barovi a, 
dragging myself out of the depths of Maelstrom, and 
planning a yearlong expedition to Chult. Where do we 
go next? After mulling over several options. we decided 
it would be refreshing to return to civilization. 
Waterdeep: Dragon Heist is a treasure hunt with an 
urban backdrop. We've visited Watcrdeep before, but 
not like this. Clever heroes will respect the city's rules. 
Those who get on the city's bad side are in for a rough 
time, as the City of Splendors is home to some of the 
most powerful figures in the Forgotten Realms . 
Charlie Sanders. a lifelong D&D player. brought his 
expe rience writing for television to the project by help­
ing flesh out the story bible months before work on the 
advent ure was schedu led to begin. Matthew Mercer, 
whom you might know from the livestreamed show 
Critical Role, lent us his boundless imaginat ion and 
helped flesh out the villains and their motives. A D&D 
adventu re is only as good as its villains, and Waterdeep: 
Dragon Heist has multiple baddies to choose from. 
Before I pull back the curtain and lead you into the 
heart of Waterdeep, I wish to thank Ed Green wood for 
making the City of Sple ndors what it is: the kind of mag­
ical place you wish in your heart was real. 
ON THE COVER 
Chris Perkins 
December 2017 
In Waterdeep, a gold coin is called a dragon, and someone has 
hidden half a million dragons in the City of Splendors. Tyler 
Jacobson illustrates the villains hunting for the treasure. May the 
gods protect any adventurer who stands in their way! 
Olscloim•t: The Lords ofWot<rdeep eonno• be h•ld responsibl• for th• flogging, ban· 
iskment, ir1carceraelort. or execution of adventurers who violaie the Code legal, nor arc 
th• Lords responsible for 1he 0<1ions of beholder erime lordi, unserupulous nobles, draw 
swoshbueklers. and e•il clones. Also, don'1 be alorm1d by 1he colouol notues scouered 
thro11ghoui 1he city. They·,, q"1te safe and hoven·s gone btrJerk in rears. 
CE: 
OUNCEONS & ORACONS, 0&0, W1urds of the Coast, Forgouen Realms. the dragon ampersand, Playtr's Handbook, Monster Manual, Dungeon Moster's Cu1de. 111 other Wizards of 
the Coas1 product namts. and their rtsptctive logos art trademarks ofWtzards of the Cout 1n the USA and other counlriU All characters and their d1st1nct1vt likenesses are property 
of Wizards of the Cont , This maitertal ts prot«:ted under the copyright laws o( the United States of Amenca. Any reproduct•on or unauthorrz.td use of the mattnal or artwork contained 
herein •S prohibited without the upress wntteo permission ofWlzards of the Coast. 
Printed in the USA C2018 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Bor 707, Renton, WA 98057 ·0707. USA Manvfactured by Hubro SA, Rue Em1le-Boecha131, 2800 Oellmont, CH. 
Represented by Hubro Eyrqpc 4 The Square Stockley Park lhbrtdec Middlesex UBJl JET Uk 