1 square = 5 feet 
MAP t. 2: Xl\Nl\T .. l\R Gu1LO H10EOUT (Soun•ERN Wl\RO) 
The half-ore is Grum'shar, a low-end Xanathar Guild 
boss. As soon as his minions retrieved who they thought 
was Renaer Neverember. the half-ore begged Nihiloor 
let him witness the interrogation of the captive, not real­
izing until after he did so that he had mistaken the pris­
oner's identity. Grum'shar attacks the characters in the 
hope of salvaging his reputation. He is an appren tice 
wizard (see appendix B), with these changes: 
• Grum'shar is chaotic evil. 
• He has these racial traits: When reduced to 0 hit 
points. he drops to 1 hit point instead (but can't do this 
again until he finishes a long rest). He has darkvision 
out to a range of 60 feet. He speaks Common and Ore. 
R OLEPLAYING FLOON 
As a result of Grum'shar's torture. Floon Blagmaar (see 
appendix B) has 1 hit point left. If he is healed by the 
characters, he is eternally grateful and shows his affec­
tion by hugging them. He stays close to them, trusting in 
their ability to protect him. lf Renaer is with the party, 
he can shoulder the burden of protecting Floon. 
TREASURE 
In a satchel. Grum'shar carries his spellbook, which 
contains the following spells: burning hands. disguise 
self. false life, shield, unseen servant, and witch bolt. 
Tucked behind the stone chair is a small, unlocked 
wooden chest containing two potions of healing, 16 gp, 
82 sp, and 250 cp. 
Q8 . GETAWAY PASS AGE 
This room looks empty, but a thorough search accompa­
nied by a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check 
reveals a rough-hewn tunnel hidden beneath a loose 
flagstone. The low tunnel leads north to area Q9. 
Q9. PRI VATE CELL AR ---
An innocent halRing family, the Peabodys , brews beer 
in this cellar, which lies beneath their home on Fishgut 
Alley in the Dock Ward. Their cellar contains brewing 
supplies and lots of worthless clutter. 
The halfiings haven't noticed the secret tunnel that 
leads to the Xanathar Guild hideout; it's concealed be­
neath a large flagstone that requires a Strength score of 
10 or higher to be lifted. 
D EVELOPMENT 
If the characters ascend out of the cellar and enter 
the Peabodys' small house, the halfiings are initially 
alarmed but can be easily calmed. Upon learning of the 
secret trapdoor, they vow to seal it up again but allow 
the cha racters to make use of it if the need arises. 
Ql0 . SLEEPIN G Q UA RTE RS ---
Straw pallets lie on the floor, and rusty manacles are 
bolted to the walls. 
Qll. B AC K DOOR 
This hideout contains a secret roure to Xanathar's lair. 
CHAPTER 1 I A FRIEND!:'\ NEED 