ROLLSKULL ALLEY IS FILLED WITH PEOPL E 
who can shape the characters' day-to-day 
lives in Waterdeep. The characte rs will 
likely return to Trollskull Alley many times 
durin g the adventure and get to know their 
neighbors as time passes. 
The locations described below are 
keyed to the map ofTrol lskull Alley (map 2.1, page 33). 
Buildings not specifica lly identified on the map are row­
houses that serve as private residences for upper -mid­
dle class Waterdavians who can afford housekeepers. 
groundskeepers, and nannies. 
T l. TROLLSKULL MANOR 
See appendix C for a handout showing the floor plan of 
this building. Give a copy of this handout to your players 
as their characters begin to explore Trollskull Manor. 
Four stories tall and boasting balconies, a turret, and 
five chimneys, the abandoned building is one of the 
grandest in Trollskull Alley. Characters can refurnish, 
rebuild, renam e, and otherwise personalize their new 
strongho ld to their hearts' contenl. 
TAVERN ROOM S 
When the char acters first arrive, the tavern's taproom is 
filled with broken furniture, tarnished silver ware. casks 
of wine that have turned to vinegar. and worthless detri ­
tus. The tavern's other rooms are all empty, except for 
cobwebs, dust, and harmless rats. 
SPIRIT ON TAP 
The former tavern is haunted by the poltergeist (spec­
ter) of the tavern's previous barkeeper, a half-elf named 
Lif. Maintaining the tavern was his life's work. and he 
couldn't abandon the place in death. 
The poltergeist understands Common and Elvish, but 
it can't speak. ll invisibly causes mischief at the expense 
of the new owners by smashing plates, breaking beer 
barrels , and so forth. If the characters don't take the 
hint, it writes not-so-subtle warning s (such as "Closing 
time!" and "Last call!") on dusty floors and grimy win­
dows. To truly claim the tavern as their own, the charac­
ters must eithe r appease the poltergeist or destroy it. 
Appea sing Lif. If the characters work to repair and 
renovate the tavern with the goal of opening it to the 
public again, the poltergeist begins to accept them as 
the new owners and gradually becomes quite accom­
modating: pulling out a chair when a cha racter wants to 
sit down , pouring a beer and delivering it to a character, 
taking coats when folks come in from the rain, and so 
forth. Once the business is up and running, Lif can also 
perform other helpful functions, such as locking doors , 
sweeping floors, and so forth. 
Destro ying Lif. Li f's poltergeist is destroyed if its hit 
points are reduce d to 0. If attacked, it flees to the up­
permost level of the turr et when red uced to half its hit 
points. From there it fights to the bitter end. 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALU ' Y 