Northeast 
l square = l 0 feet 
\-, -~-,-----;:::\]=~" '\ 
M11P 2 1: TROLLSKUt.L AL LEV (NORTH W11RO) 
of this adventure, the rakshasa might require a service 
in payment, such as slaying enemies that are hunting it, 
posting advertisements for its business in their tavern, 
or keeping tabs on someone Vincent has been hired 
to spy on. 
T6. BOOK WYRM'S TREASURE ----
The front of this bookstore is adorned with a charming 
sign of a gold dragon curled around a treasure hoard 
of books and scrolls. Inside, the shop is decorated with 
beautiful hardwood, and the earthy scent of old books 
permeates the air. The library fills two floors of this 
three-story building, and it somehow seems to contain 
more shelves than the building should be able to hold. 
The shop is managed by a short dragonborn of gold 
dragon ancestry named Rishaal the Page-Turner , who 
lives on the third floor. Rishaal, a member of the Watch­
ful Order of Magists and Protectors, is a mage , with 
these changes: 
Rishaa l is neutral. 
• He has these racial traits: He can use his action to ex­
hale a 15-foot cone of fire (but can't do this again until 
he finishes a short or long rest); each creatu re in the 
cone must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, tak­
ing 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much 
damage on a successful one. He has resistance to fire 
damage. He speaks Common, Draconic, Dwarvish, 
and Elvish. 
SERVICES 
The shop contains books of all sorts. In addition, Rish ­
aal has a small collection of spe ll books and allows 
wizards to copy spells from them at the cost listed in the 
Spells for Sale table. He can scribe any of these spells 
as a spell scrol/ but charges twice the listed cost for 
this service. 
SPELLS FOR SALE 
Spell 
Comprehend languages, detect magic, 
feather fall, find familiar, mage armor, 
magic missile, shield, unseen servant 
Arcane lock, continual flame, darkvision, 
invisibility, magic weapon, misty step, rope 
trick, suggestion 
Clairvoyance, counterspell, dispel magic, 
fireball, fly, nondetection, water breathing 
Arcane eye.fabricate, greater invisibility, 
ice storm, locate creature, polymorph 
Bigby's hand, cone of cold, modify memory 
T7. SEWER ACCESS 
Cost per Spell 
25 gp 
75 gp 
150 gp 
300 gp 
750 gp 
At the east end ofTrollskull Alley is a removable metal 
grate that covers an opening. Below the grate, a ladde r 
descends 20 feet into the Waterdeep sewer system . 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLEY 