cess ful DC 15 Wisdom (l nsight} check, asce rtain that 
these s pies are paying particu lar attention to the activi­
ties of the drow party membe rs. 
JA RLAXLE B AENRE 
If the par ty repo rts the drow to the City Watch,Jarl ax le 
ends the surveillance a nd brea ks o ff all contact with the 
charac ters for the time being. 
On the oth er hand , if the characte rs try to confron t 
the drow spies, they avoid contac t but leave behind a 
black eye pat ch as a calling ca rd. The next day,Jarlaxl e 
Baenre (see app endix B) shows up at the party's 
headqu arters, using his hat of disguise to appear as a 
habe rdashe r named J.B. Neverco tt. In this guise, he 
asks to s peak privately with drow charac ters who he 
think s might make suitab le Brcga n D'aerthe recruit s. 
Only drow are given ser ious consideration, butjarl axle 
doesn't care if they're male or female. As a test , he offers 
them their first mission. 
Jarlax le is a cons umm ate actor who never lets down 
his guard. Even if the cha racters disce rn his true iden­
tity, he never admits to being anything other than what 
he pretends to be. 
EM ERAL D EN CLAVE MISSIONS 
Party Level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"Outlying farms are being terrorized by a 
scarecrow come to life. It has slaughtered live· 
stock, chased horses, and spooked farmers. 
No people have been killed as yet, so the City 
Guard is dragging its heels. Something must 
be done!" 
"Sir Ambrose Everdawn, a grizzled old cham­
pion of Kelemvor, has offered to help the City 
Guard catch a necromancer who's stealing 
bones from the City of the Dead and animating 
them as skeletons. Sir Ambrose could use your 
help, if you're not too busy." 
"Doppelgangers threaten the balance of power 
in Waterdeep. Rumor has it a group of them 
are hiding in the Yawning Portal. Root them 
out and rid the city of them if you can." 
"The Xanathar Guild is releasing mons ters 
to distract the City Watch and the City Guard 
while its members stir up trouble elsewhere. 
The authorities are having trouble catching 
and killing a flying horror known as a grell. 
This aberration was latest seen snatching up 
an old woman in the Dock Ward. Unless we 
intervene, she won't be the last." 
EMERALD ENCLAVE 
The Emerald Encl ave takes an interest in chara cters 
who see k to prese rve the bala nce within Waterdeep 
(pa rticularly clerics of nat ure, drui ds, a nd rang ers). Any 
s uch chara cter is visited by a white cat that s peaks the 
following message in a melodious male voice: 
! 
"Interested in joining the Emerald Enclave? Come meet I 
us at Phaulkonmere in the Southern Ward." 
The cat is an ordina ry ani ma l upon which an animal 
messe nger spell was cast. h das hes away afte r deliver­
ing its invitation. 
M E LA NNOR F ELLBRA NCH 
The chara cters' main contact in the Emerald Enclave 
is Melanno r Fellbran ch, the friend ly but humo rless 
grounds keeper of Phau lkonmere, a compo und located 
one block south of Kolat Towers (see chapter 8). Phau l­
konmere is owned by the Tarm and Phaulkon noble 
families. Melann or delivers miss ions by way of animal 
messe nger spells and is pa rtial to using cats and pi­
geons as couriers. He quickly ass igns new members 
their firs t mission. 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Not one but three scarecrows are terrorizing Undercliff. One wears 
a sackcloth hood, another has a rotting pumpkin head, and the 
third is covered with a threadbare blanket. Characters who camp in 
a field for the better part of a day or night have a 10 percent chance 
of encountering one of the scarecrows. The attacks continue until 
all three scarecrows are destroyed. Reward: Each Emerald Enclave 
character gains l renown for ending the threat. 
Convincing Ambrose Everdawn (LG male human Tethyrian knight) 
that the party intends to help requires a successful DC 13 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check. If the check succeeds, Sir Ambrose asks the 
party to patrol the southern half of the cemetery for ten consecutive 
nights while he patrols the north half. The characters have a cumu· 
lative 10 percent chance each night of encountering six skeletons, 
but the re's no sign of the necromancer who animated them. Once 
the skeletons are destroyed, no further encounters occur. After a 
tenday, Sir Ambrose releases the characters from service. Reward: 
Each Emerald Enclave character gains 1 renown. Each party mem­
ber who patrolled the cemetery for all ten nights receives 100 gp. 
The characters need to confront "Bonnie" the doppelganger and, 
with a successful DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) 
check, convince her to leave Waterdeep and take her gang with her. 
Reward: Each Emerald Enclave character gains 2 renown. 
Locating the grell requires a successful DC 18 Intelligence (lnves· 
tigation) check followed by a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Survival) 
check. Each check, whether successful or not, represent s l hour of 
gathering information or tracking spoor. In fact, there are two grells. 
One grell tries to flee if the other is killed. Reward: Each Emerald 
Enclave character gains 2 renown. )eryth bestows a charm of hero· 
ism (see "Supernatural Gifts" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's 
Guide) on each party member who helped slay the grells. 
CHAP I !OR 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLE V 