Melannor is a half-elf druid , with these changes: 
Melannor is chaotic good. 
• He bas these racial traits: He has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can't put 
him to sleep. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 
feet. He speaks Common and Elvish. 
j ERYTH PHAU LKON 
When the characters arrive at Phaulkonmere for the 
first time, Melannor introduces them to the lady of the 
estate: a noblewoman-turned-demigod and Chosen of 
Mielikki namedjeryth Phaulkon.Jeryth, the only mem­
ber of her family who currently resides at Phaulkon­
mere, manifests as a disembodied female voice that can 
be heard by anyone in the villa gardens. She offers mem­
bership in the enclave and bestows on each new mem­
ber a charm of restoration (see "Supernatural Gifts" in 
chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide). Jeryth also of­
fers Phaulkonmere as a safe haven for enclave members 
and their friends . 
In her disembodied state ,jeryth can't be harmed. If 
the need arises,Jeryth can cast any spell on the druid 
FOR CE GR EY (G RAY HANDS) MISSIONS 
Party level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"Seek out Hlam, a monk who lives in a cave on 
the side of Mount Waterdeep . Ask him what 
he's heard about threats to the city, but try not 
to annoy him or overstay your welcome." 
"A young bronze dragon has taken up resi­
dence in Deepwater Harbor. It startled a few 
sailors recently but hasn't hurt anyone. Con­
front the dragon and learn its intentions ." 
"A member of Force Grey has been act-
ing strangely oflate. His name is Meloon 
Wardragon, and his happy-go-lucky demea nor 
has sou red. He's been hanging around the 
Yawning Portal more than usual. Observe him 
for a tenday, then report back to me." 
"Xanathar is using intellect devourers to 
take control ofWaterdavians in key positions 
throughout the city. We must deal with this 
problem at once. Infiltrate Xanathar's lair and 
destroy whatever is responsible for creating 
these creatures." 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLEY 
spell list. She uses her spells in defense of her estate 
and its beautiful gardens. A member of the Emerald 
Enclave can petitionjeryth to cast a spell, which she 
is happy to do if that character's renown in the enclave 
equals or exceeds the spell's level. 
FORCE GREY (GRAY HANDS) 
The Blackstaff, Vajra Safahr (see appendix B), is friends 
with Renaer Neverember, and word of his rescue quickly 
reaches her ears. She uses a sending spell to deliver the 
following short message to one of the characters: 
I 
"I am Vajra Safahr, the Blackstaff. Come to Blackstaff I 
Tower in the Castle Ward at once. Bring your friends." 
Despite her insistent tone, Vajra doesn't take offense 
if the character refuses her invitation. A day later, she 
casts another sending spell and reaches out to a dif­
ferent party member. If sbe is refused a second time, 
she doesn't contact the party again until the characters 
gain a level. 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Those who climb the mounta inside to reach the cave must succeed 
on a DC 12 Constitut ion saving throw or arrive with ld4 levels of 
exhaustion. Trying to get Hlam (see appendix B) to share informa­
tion requires a DC 12 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If the check 
succeeds, he tells the cha racters, "Evil's twin hides its face for now. 
Expect that to change before winter's end." (This is an oblique ref­
erence to Manshoon.) The characters can descend the mountain 
safely. Reward: Each Gray Hand character gains 1 renown. 
Vajra gives each character a potion of water breathing to complete 
this mission. They find a young bronze dragon, Zelifarn, swimming 
around a barnacle-covered shipwreck at the bottom of the deep 
harbor. The friendly dragon tries to coax as much treasure as it can 
from the characters. Those who converse with Zelifarn can make a 
DC 13 Wisdom (Insight) check. A successful check reveals that the 
dragon poses no danger to Waterdeep. If no one succeeds on the 
check, the dragon's true intentions can't be gleaned. Reward: Each 
Gray Hand character gains 1 renown. 
Characters can befriend Meloon Wardragon (see appendix B) or 
watch him from afar. Each day at dawn, Meloon engages in a tele­
pathic contest of wills with his magic axe, Azuredge (see appendix 
A), before leaving his room at the Yawning Portal. The axe wants 
a new wielder, but Meloon refuses to part with it. Characters who 
observe Meloon during this exchange can ascertain what's going on 
with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check. Reward: Each Gray 
Hand characte r gains 2 renown. If the characters rid Meloon of the 
intellect devourer in his skull, Vajra gives the party a wand of secrets. 
The characters must slay Nihiloor the mind flayer (see appendix B). 
They can stake out a Xanathar Guild hideout (see chapter 1) and 
wait for Nihiloor to show up there , or confront the mind flayer in 
Xanathar's lair (see chapter 5). Reward: Each Gray Hand character 
gains 2 renown. Every character who participated in the raid re· 
ceives a potion of resistance. In addition, Vajra covers the cost of any 
raise dead spells needed to bring back dead characters. 