Enclosed are tickets for the entire party to The Fall 
ofTiamat, an opera sung in Giant describing the evil 
dragon queen's defeat at the Well of Dragons. 
MIRT 
If any of the characters join the Harpers, Mirt (see ap­
pendix B) becomes their main Harper contact through­
out the adventure. 
Lightsinger Theater is a high-end establishment lo­
cated in the Castle Ward. If the characters meet Mirt 
in bis private box during the opera's intermission, he 
describes the Harpers and offers membership to eligi­
ble characters. Characters who accept receive a silver 
pin of a harp within a crescent moon, along with their 
first mission (see the Harpers Missions table). Mirt 
also tells them that if they ever need to speak with him 
directly, they are welcome to visit his manor in the Sea 
Ward. If the characters do visit Mirt's manor, there 's a 
90 percent chance that Mirt isn't home and no one an­
swers the door. 
LORDS' ALLIANCE MISSIONS 
Party Level 
2nd 
Mission Brief 
"A gang war is causing unrest throughout the 
city. We have offered protection to members 
of the Dungsweepers' Guild, and you have 
been assigned to protect a group of them. 
Meet them at the Muleskull Tavern, on Ship 
Street in the Dock Ward, at six bells and guard 
them while they work. Do this every day for a 
tenday." 
LORDS ' ALLIAN CE 
Characters who place the security of the city and the 
realm ahead of their own interests are invited to join 
this faction. Potential recruits must be residents of 
Waterdeep. 
j ALES T ER S ILVERMANE 
The characters' primary contact is j alester Silvermane 
(see appendix B), a field agent who reports to Open Lord 
Laeral Silverhand. Ja lester spends much of his time in 
the Yawning Portal and other taverns that adventurers 
are known to frequent. 
Jalester offers membership in the Lords' AJ!iance to 
those who qualify. Members are expected to complete 
whatever missions are assigned to them in a timely, pro ­
fessional manner. Refusing to accept or comp lete a mis­
sion can result in suspension or dismissal. An alliance 
member who is suspended receives no alliance missions 
until the suspension ends, while dismissal from the 
alliance means a loss of membership and the loss of all 
renown in the faction. 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Each morning, the characters meet with a team of four dungsweep ­
ers (commoners) and head to the Trades Ward, where the sweepers 
spend the day cleaning up waste in the streets. It's boring work. 
On the ninth day, around highsun, a carrion crawler emerges from 
a nearby alley, pursued by two City Watch guards . The characters 
can help slay the carrion crawler, which came up from the sewers. 
Reward: Each Lords' Alliance character gains 1 renown. 
3rd "Harko Swornhold, an evil adventurer who was Whichever character leads the search must succeed on three DC 
exiled three years ago for attempting to bribe a 14 Intelligence (Investigation) checks before gaining thr~e failures, 
city magistrate, has returned to Waterdeep ille- with each check representing 8 hours of investigation. Other char­
gally. We think the Xanathar Guild is using him acters can assist, granting advantage on the checks. Harko (bandit 
4th 
5th 
to incite violence. He was last seen recruiting captain) has two kenku companions that fight by his side. Reward: 
kenku in the Dock Ward. Find him and quietly Each Lords' Alliance character gains 1 renown. 
put him to the sword." 
"The Zhents are courting a Red Wizard ofThay 
named Esloon Bezant, trying to add his gang 
of thugs to their ranks. All we know about him 
is that he fled his homeland a few years back 
and is too smart to get caught doing anything 
illegal. He and his gang of bullies prowl the 
Dock Ward. Scuttle the deal, and do it fast!" 
"The City Watch is overwhelmed by the recent 
surge in violence and needs our help. We have 
reports of an assassin prowling the rooftops, 
picking off targets with arrows and alarming 
citizens. My sources say he goes to ground 
somewhere near Trollskull Alley. Find him, 
alert the City Watch to his whereabouts, and 
aid in his arrest if you can. Don't kill him, since 
doing that could escalate the violence further." 
The characters can create a rift between the Zhentarim and Es­
loon's gang by sowing rumors of betrayal. They must spend 25 gp 
in bribes and succeed on a DC 16 Charisma (Deception or Persua­
sion) check. Conversely, they can confront Esloon Bezant (LE male 
Thayan human mage) and his gang of five thugs and either defeat 
them or bribe them with at least 500 gp. Reward: Each Lords' Alli­
ance character gains 2 renown. The characters can also deprive Es­
loon of his spellbook, which contains all the spells he has prepared. 
Whichever character leads the hunt must succeed on three DC 18 
Intelligence (Investigation) checks before gaining three failures, 
with each check representing 8 hours of investigation. Other char­
acters can assist, granting advantage on the checks. If the search 
succeeds, characters corner the assassin, Ziraj the Hunte r (see ap­
pendix B), in the greenhouse of Corel Ion's Crown in Trollskull Alley 
(area T4). Ziraj surrenders to the City Watch without a fight, believ­
ing that his fellow Zhents will find a way to free him. Reward: Each 
Lords' Alliance character gains 2 renown. Every character who aids 
in Ziraj's capture receives SO gp. 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLEY 