ORDER OF THE GAUNTLET 
The Order of the Gauntlet looks for members who seek 
to fight evil in all its forms. Adventurers who worship 
Helm, Torm. or Tyr are especially sought after. 
SAV RA BELA:BRANTA 
If the party includes one or more likely recruits, Savra 
Belabranta (NG female Tethyrian human knight ) visits 
the characters' residence and invites them to the Halls 
of Justice, the temple ofTyr (localed west of the Market 
in the Castle Ward), where they can be sworn into the 
order. The swearing-in ceremony involves the recitation 
of an oath to find and destroy evil in all its forms. The 
oath is spoken while every candidate wears a silver 
gauntlet (a symbol of the order). After the ceremony, 
Savra gives new recruits their first mission. 
The Belabrantas are a Waterdav ian noble family that 
raises griffons for the Griffon Cavalry. Savra is trying to 
regain her honor by serving Tyr, thus atoning for the evil 
acts she committed as a member of an evil elemental 
ORDER OF THE GAUNTLET MISSIONS 
Party Level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"We hear that the Zhents are paying gangs in 
the Field Ward to attack suspected Xanathar 
Guild members. Fights are breaking out in the 
ward daily. Stop a fight before it happens. We 
need to send a message to these thugs that 
further altercations won't be tolerated." 
"A notorious thief called the Black Viper, long 
thought dead, has apparently returned to 
Waterdeep. She has already robbed at least 
a dozen noble estates. No one knows her 
identity because she wears a mask, but it was 
reported in The Waterdeep Wazoo that she's 
a noble. Find out what else the broadsheet's 
publisher knows about her and report back to 
me." 
"Guards at the End shift Tavern, located on 
Endshift Street in the Field Ward, are being 
robbed nightly, and the innkeeper says he's 
seen giant rats prowling around the back al­
leys. Sounds dull, but it's a plea for help that 
we can't ignore." 
"I just received a report that spined devils are 
terrorizing citizens in Twelvedog Court, in the 
Field Ward. Come, let us slay them together 
and find their evil summoner!" 
cult called the Howling Hatred. Savra's sins are irrele­
vant to this adventure, but you can learn more about her 
past in Princes of the Apocalypse. Whenever she has a 
mission for the characters, she communicates the mis­
sive to them herself. 
ZHENTARIM 
The Doom Raiders try to contact evil-aligned or morally 
ambiguous characters. A flying snake with a parch ment 
tied about its body visits one character in the dead of 
night. The message reads: 
1 
"Want to be part of something big? Speak to Davi! Star- I 
song at the Yawning Portal." 
If the characte rs seek out Davi!, Yagra Stonefist 
(see "Familiar Faces," page 20) greets them and 
leads interested parties to a table in the cente r of the 
Yawning Portal's taproom, where her boss waits with 
drink in band. 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
The characters must visit the Field Ward and, as a fight threatens 
to break out, make three successful DC 12 Charisma (Intimidation) 
checks before failing three checks, or else defeat four thugs (pref­
erably without killing them) to disperse the would-be brawlers. 
Reward: Each Order of the Gauntlet character gains 1 renown. 
The characters can meet with Gaxly Rudderbust (N male llluskan 
human commoner), the publisher of The Waterdeep Wazoo, and 
either succeed on a DC 12 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) 
check or bribe him with at least 50 gp. If they do so, Gaxly shares 
his suspicions that the Black Viper is the secret, evil twin sister of 
Ammalia Cassalanter (see append ix B), and that she wears a mask 
to hide a disfigurement. Interviewing the Cassalanters at their villa 
(see chapter 6) or conducting a day-long investigation and succeed­
ing on a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals that no 
such person exists. Reward: Each Order of the Gauntlet character 
gains 1 renown for reporting what Gaxly said. 
The inn is being harassed by the Shard Shunners, a gang of halAing 
wererats, because the innkeeper's guards once threatened a gang 
member. To end the harassment, the characters must defeat three 
wererats or scare them off with a successful DC 17 Charisma (Intim­
idation) check. Reward: Each Order of the Gauntlet character gains 
2 renown and receives a potion of healing. 
The characters must help Savra defeat five spined devils, which 
have locals pinned down in nearby buildings. Right afterward, Gy­
sheer Omfreys (LE female Tethyrian human cult fanatic) emerges 
from an alley and attacks Savra. Gysheer is an overzealous member 
of a devil·worshiping cult led by Victoro Cassalanter (see appendix 
B). Savra tries to subdue and question her, but only magical com­
pulsion can force her to implicate Victoro. Since devil worship isn't 
illegal in Waterdeep, Savra has no grounds to stir up trouble with 
the Cassalanters, and she advises characters not to do so, either. 
Reward: Each Order of the Gauntlet character gains 2 renown. Every 
character who took part receives a potion of greater healing. 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLl::Y 