DAVIL STARSONG 
Davil Starsong (see append ix B) is the c ha racte rs' 
prima ry conta ct in the Black Netwo rk, at least ini tia lly. 
Over drinks, he shares the following in form ation: 
• Davi! is a retired adventurer. He and his adventuring 
companions joined the Zhentarim a few years back. 
They h elp people in need. (More spec ifically, they pro­
vide loa ns. mercenaries, and othe r services .) 
• Another Black Network gang has recent ly infiltrated 
the city and tried to take over the Xanathar Gui ld. 
They failed, setting off a war in the streets. Davi I and 
ZHENTARIM MISSION S 
Party Level 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
Mission Brief 
"Someone is killing elf and half-elf sailors in 
the Dock Ward-three dead so far, each one 
decap itated by a blade in the dead of night. 
Look into it, will you? Methinks the City Watch 
coul d use a little help." 
"The re's a shop in the Trades Ward called 
Weirdbottle's Concoctions . The gnome who 
runs it is a friend of ours named Skeemo. He's 
made some potions of mind reading for a client. 
Pick up the potions and deliver them to the 
God Catcher, one of the enormous statues in 
the Castle Ward. Give the potions to the lady in 
the purp le cloak, and keep the tip." 
"Waterdeep's richest halfl ing family, the 
Snobeedles, is offering 500 gold pieces for in· 
formation leading to the safe return of a miss· 
ing fami ly member named Dasher Snobeedle. 
Those dragons sure would look good in our 
coffers ! Investigate and see what you can 
learn, but don't get in any trouble. The City 
Watch already has it out for us." 
"Skeemo Weirdbottle has betrayed us! The lit· 
tie worm has been feeding information to our 
enemies. He must be elim inate d. Make it look 
like an accident." 
CHAPTER 2 I TROLLSKULL ALLEY 
his colleag ues want to end the vio lence and restore 
the peace. 
Davi ! offers membership in the faction to interested 
characters, then assigns them the ir first mission (se e 
the Zhentarim Missions table). Subsequ ent miss ion 
briefings a re written on scrolls and delivered by fly. 
ing snakes . 
T ASHLYN YAFEERA 
After the characters comp lete two missions for Davil, 
he is arrested by the City Watch and held in Castle Wa­
terdeep while he waits to be questioned by the Lords 
Mission Requirements and Reward 
Characters who spend three consecutive nights loitering around 
the docks spot Heldar, a drunk half-elf sailor (bandit), leaving the 
Muleskull Tavern (on Ship Street in the Dock Ward). Characters who 
follow Heldar can save him from Soluun Xibrindas , a renegade drow 
gunslinger (see appendix B). Soluun hides in the shadows, blade 
drawn, waiting for the half-elf to stumble by. Spotting him before 
he strikes requires a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Percept ion) check. 
Soluun flees if reduced to half his hit points or fewer. Reward: Each 
Zhentarim character gains 1 renown. If Heldar survives Soluun's 
attack, each character receives 50 gp. 
Skeemo Weirdbottle (see append ix B) has placed four potions of 
poison in a small silk-lined coffer. The potions look, smell , and taste 
like potions of mind reading. Awaiting delivery near the God Catcher 
is Esvele Rosznar, the Black Viper (see appendix B). She wears a 
hooded purple cloak and is seated in the back of a hire-coach. She 
exchanges the coffer for a black velvet pouch , then orde rs her driver 
to depart. The coach delivers Esvele to her estate in the Sea Ward. 
Reward: Each Zhentarim character gains 1 renown. Esvele's pouch 
contains 15 pp, which the characters can keep. 
Any character who spends at least three days asking pertinent 
questions and pursuing leads in the Southern Ward or the Dock 
Ward can, at the end of that time, make a DC 18 Charisma (Persua· 
sion or Intimidat ion) check. On a success , the character convinces 
some tight-lipped halflings to arrange a meeting with Dasher . The 
meeting is scheduled to occur at highsun in Waymoot the next day. 
Dasher shows up to hear what the characters have to say, but he has 
no intention of going home. He recently joined a gang ofhalfling 
wererats called the Sha rd Shunners (so named because they detest 
silver) and has since become a wererat himself (see chapter 1 for 
halfling wererat statistics). The Shard Shunners are his family now. 
Reward: Each Zhentar im character gains 2 renown . 
Skeemo Weirdbottle (see appendix B) manages to stay one step 
ahead of the characters . As they approach his shop, they see him 
ride off in a dray with five other passengers and a d river (all com­
moners ). If Skeemo realizes he's being followed , he casts fly and 
takes to the air. If the effect is dispelled or the characters maintain 
pursuit , he casts greater invisibility on himse lf and uses crowds to 
cover his escape. If the characters fail to nab him, he takes refuge 
in Kolat Towers (see chapter 8). Reward: Each Zhentarim character 
gains 2 renown ifSkeemo is eliminated without implicating the 
Black Networ k. In addition, characters who snatch Skeemo's satchel 
find that it holds his spellbook (containing all the spells he has pre· 
pared), a potion of mind reading, and 150 gp in a s ilk coin purse. 