ofWaterdeep about the Black Network's operations in 
the city. The characters cont inue to receive missions, 
but they come from Tasbl yo Yafeera (see appendix B). 
Characters first become aware of this change when they 
receive their next mission briefing, since it's written in a 
different hand. 
If the characters want lo speak with Tashlyn direclly, 
Yagra can arrange a meeting in the City of the Dead or 
some other quiet place. By the time the characters see 
her, Tashlyn has learned the following information: 
• The rumored leader of the renegade Zhent faction is 
Urstul Floxin, a known Black Network assassin. 
• A warrant has been issued for Urstul's arrest, but his 
current whereabouts are unknown. Even magical 
scrying has failed to reveal his location. 
• The botched kidnapping of Renaer Neverember won't 
sit well with Urstul. He might try again. (Tashlyn 
doesn't actually believe this, but she knows that 
Renae r has ties to the Harpers and might share 
information of interest with the characte rs.) 
Weeks after his arrest, Davi! is released from cus-
tody once the Lords of Waterdeep are satisfied that 
neither he nor his associates are responsible for the re­
cent violence. 
OPEN FOR BUSINESS? 
If the characters intend to fix up and reopen the tavern 
in Trollskull Alley, they can expect to deal with various 
guilds without whose support the business is likely to 
fail. Repairs to the walls and the roof require the ap­
proval and oversight of the Carpenters', Roofers', and 
Plaisterers' Guild. The Cellarers' and Plumbe rs' Guild 
is best equipped to handle the refurbishing of the base­
ment and plumbing. Clean bedsheets are provided by 
ihe Launderers' Guild. The streets around the establish­
ment are kept up by the Dungsweepers' Guild and the 
Loyal Order of Street Laborers. Meat must come from 
the Guild of Butchers; ale and wine from the Vintners', 
Distillers', and Brewers' Guild: and bread and pastries 
from the Bakers' Guild. The list goes on. 
The "Tavern Keeping Expenses" sidebar lists the 
costs that the characters must pay to get their place 
ready for business, as well as the recurring obligations 
they must meet while the tavern is open for business. 
SAMPL E GUI LD R EPRE SENTATI VES 
Once it becomes known around the city that the tavern 
in Trollskull Alley is planning to reopen its doors to the 
public, the adventure rs receive visits from guild repre ­
sentatives interested in the tavern's welfare. This sec ­
tion describes a handful of these representatives. 
BROXLEY f AIRKETTLE 
Fellowship of Innkeepers 
Broxley (LG male strongheart haltling commoner ) 
is a laid-back, law-abiding halfiing with mutton chops 
and bushy eyebrows. Inns and taverns are few and 
far between in the North Ward, so he makes frequent 
visits to the characters' place to see how it's doing and 
to offer his well-wishes. If none of the characters are 
members of the guild, he strongly urges them co join 
"to avoid further harassment." The cost of membe r­
ship in the Fellowship of Innkeepers is included in the 
regular expenses outlined in the "Tavern Keeping Ex­
penses~ sidebar. 
Broxley has long believed the tavern to be haunted and 
is glad to see living sou ls in it once more. While lament ­
ing the burdens of being a father of nine. he is quick to 
point out that the characters ' continued compliance with 
guild rules and regulations makes his rather difficult life 
"just a bitty bit eas ier." 
HAMMOND KRADDOC 
Vintners', Distillers: and Brewers· Guild 
Hammond (N male Illuskan human common er) does n't 
like adventurers, but he likes their coin. This effete, 
well-dressed man is always seen in the company of a 
young scribe, Jinny (NG female tiefting commo ner), who 
wears spectacles and silently records notes and conver­
sations in a small book as Hammond spea ks. 
Hammond likes to stop by in the middle of the month 
to inform the characters of new spirits that the guild bas 
to offer, and to give them a list of which ones to push 
hard. To test the extent of their willingness to cooperate, 
he chastises them for their current selection of bever­
ages, even if he previously sold them those goods. 
jUSTYN RASSK 
Guild of Butche rs 
Dead-eyed, slack-jawedjustyn (NE male llluskan hu­
man thug) grew up in the toughest neighborhood in 
the Field Ward and has the scars to prove it. The guild 
doesn't pay him enough for him to afford a residence in 
the North Ward, and going to that part of the city fills 
his heart with resentment. He darkens the characters' 
doorstep once a month to deliver a cartload of chopped 
meat for the tavern's larder. Although delivery fees are 
covered by the guild's monthly dues,Justyn always de­
mands some extr a coin for his service. If the characte rs 
don't give him a gratuity of at least 3 gp, he says, '·Maybe 
next time the meat will be someone you know." He lets 
the threat hang in the air, then departs. 
TAVE RN KE EPING EX PEN SES 
This sidebar summarizes the one-time payments and 
continuing expenses associated with running the tavern in 
Trollskull Alley, as well as providing rules for determining 
how much coin the business makes or loses. 
One-Time Expenses 
• 1,000 gp to renovate the tavern over 12 days 
• 250 gp for guild licenses and contracts (paid up front) 
Regular Expenses 
• 50 gp per tenday for maintenance and wages of hirelings 
• 10 gp per tenday for all other guild expenses 
Profit or Loss 
At the end of every tenday, roll a dlOO + 10 and consult 
the Running a Business table in chapter 6 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide to determine whether the tavern lost money 
or earned profit. If the characters spent coin on promoting 
their business during that tenday, add l to the roll for each 
l gp they spent. If the characters have unpaid expenses, 
subtract l from the roll for each l gp they owe. 
C H APTE R 2 I TROLLSKULl. ALLEY 