ESIDENTS OF TuOLLSKULL ALLEY ARE SHAKEN 
by a loud whoosh, rattling windows, and the 
screams of city folk. A fireball spell has just 
detonated in the street, and the neighborhood 
is thrown into chaos. As members of the City 
Guard, the City Watch, and the Watchful Order 
of Magists and Protectors rush to the scene, 
the characters are afforded a chance to assess the 
damage and investigate further. This incident sets into 
motion the main plot and puts the characters on a colli­
sion course with those who want to find and claim Lord 
Neverember's hidden cache of gold. 
The fireball goes off early in the morning, at a time 
when all the characters are in Trollskull Manor. Read 
aloud the following text ro set the scene: 
Windows rattle as the roar of an explosion fills Trollskull 
Alley. Charred bodies and anguished screams Ay through 
the air. A thick cloud of acrid smoke billows outward 
from the blast, which seems to have occurred right out­
side your door. 
Let the players tell you what their characters are doing 
at this moment and how they react to the explosion. 
Those who want to guess the nature of the explosion 
can, with a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check, conclude that someone just cast a fireball 
spell outside. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE? 
Dalakhar, a rock gnome spy working for Lord Dagult 
Neverember, was on his way to see the characters when 
the fireball went off, killing him and ten other people. 
The gnome is important because he was carrying the 
Stone ofGolorr(see appendix A)-the key to finding 
Lord Neverember's hidden cache of gold. 
Hounded by agents of the Zhentarim, the Xanathar 
Guild, and Bregan D'aerthe. Dalakhar was unable to 
escape from Waterdeep with the artifact, so he planned 
to entrust it to the characters briefly, for surely the folk 
who rescued Lord Neverember's son could keep it safe 
where he could not. 
By the time the events of this chapter have played 
out, the Stone ofGolorr has changed hands a few times 
and the characters have learned more about the big pic­
ture-though they still have a long chase ahead of them. 
ZHENTS CAUG H T I N THE ACT 
Three members of the Black etwork, including the 
Zhent assassin Urstul Floxin (see appendix B), were 
close to nabbing Dalakhar when they were caught in the 
blast. Of the three, only Urstul survived. Though he was 
wounded, he was able to pluck the Stone ofGolorr from 
Dalakhar's pocket before fleeing the scene. While other 
survivors were coming to their senses, Urstul stumbled 
through the smoke and haze and eventually made his 
way back to Gralhund Villa a short distance away. 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALL 