HOUSE G RALHUN D ---
The heads of the Gralhund noble family, Yalah Gralhund 
and her husband, Orond, are providing coin and shel­
ter to Urstul and his fellow Zhents in exchange for the 
promise of getting their fair share of the hidden cache 
of gold. But the Gralhunds aren't willing to put the ir 
trust entirely in the Black Network; they sent out their 
own agent to shadow the Zhents , eliminate Dalakhar, 
and obtain the Stone ofGolorr on their behalf. Yalah 
gave the would-be assassin a necklace of fireballs with 
instruction s on how and when to use it. When it seemed 
as though Dalakhar might give Urstul Floxin the slip, 
this agent hurled one of the beads from the necklace to 
stop the gnome in his tracks. 
The Gralhunds' assassin is a nirnblewright (see 
appendix B) that escaped from the House oflnspired 
Hands, the temple ofGond in the Sea Ward, a month 
ago. The construct hitched a ride on House Gralhund's 
coach. Yalah Gralhund befriended it, offered it shelter, 
and used it as a servant until she and her husband found 
a more sinister use for it. 
The incident with the fireball has strained the alliance 
between the Gralhunds and the Black Network. Urstul 
Floxin is refusing to hand over the Stone ofGolorr until 
he speaks to his secret master, Manshoon. Meanwhile, 
the Gralhunds are weighing the risks of betraying and 
murdering Urstu l in their own house. If the cha racters' 
investigation go well, they'll blunder into this den of 
snakes before the chapter is done. 
UNRAVELING THE P LOT 
During their investigation, the characters should learn 
who or what cast the fireball (a nimblewright), why the 
attack was commitled (to stea l the Stone ofGolorr), and 
where the stone was taken (Gralhund Villa). lf the inves­
tigation stalls, friendly NPCs might step forward to help 
in exchange for compensation. One such figure is Vin­
cent Trench, the private detective , who lives in Trollskull 
Alley (see chapter 2, area TS). The characters can also 
consu lt with friendly factions such as the Harpers. 
THE CRIME SCENE 
In the wake of the explosion, people emerge from their 
houses and shops to survey the devastation. The fire­
ball didn't set any buildings ablaze, but it left eleven 
people dead: 
• One elderly female human who was out for a walk (no 
one recognizes her) 
• Two cloaked male humans (Zhentarim sellswords) 
clad in leather armor with sheathed longswords 
Two female humans and one male half-elf dressed in 
plain clothes (servants of wealthy North Ward fami­
lies, killed while running errands) 
• One male gnome (Dalakhar) wearin g a burned cloak 
and clutching a dagger 
• Two fema le halflings who were playing a flute and a 
fiddle, and two male halflings who were dancing 
The characters have only a few minutes to search 
the crime scene before members of the City Guard ar­
rive. After that, they aren't allowed anywhere near the 
OH APT£R 3 I FIRl!BALl . 
bodies, although invisible and similarly hidden charac­
ters can search the crime scene further. A search of the 
bodies accompanied by a successful DC lS Wisdom 
(Perce ption) check reveals the following: 
• One of the dead male humans has a black, winged 
snake (the symbo l of the Black Network) tattooed on 
his right forearm. 
• The dead gnome has dry waste on his boots and 
cloak, suggesting he has spent time in the sewers 
recently. He also has a pouch containing five 100 gp 
gemstones. 
A cha racter can try to snatch Dalakhar's pouch with­
out being seen by NPC onlookers, doing so with a suc­
cessful DC 13 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check . On a 
failed check, the character still acquires the pouch, but 
someone observes the theft and reports it to City Watch 
constables once they show up (see "The Watch Arrives" 
below). This witness to the theft can be silence d with a 
bribe of SO gp or more. 
AFTER THE BLAST 
The characters have a few minutes to examine the 
crime scene before the City Guard arrives and cordons 
off Trollskull Alley, posting six guards at each entrance. 
The guards don't allow anyone in or out without permis­
sion from a superior officer. Another six guar ds, includ­
ing a sergeant with 18 hit points , make their way to the 
crime scene and watch over the dead bodies until the 
City Watch arrives. Lingering smoke from the fireball 
also attracts a Griffon Cavalry rider (see appendix B). 
As its griffon mount circles the neighborhood, the rider 
watches the streets and alleys for suspicious figures. 
THE W AT CH ARRIV ES 
Twenty minutes after the explosion, a City Watch ser­
geant named Saeth Crom ley (see appendix B) escorts 
a member of the Watchful Order of Magists and Protec­
tors named Barnibu s Blastwind (see appendix B) to the 
crime scene. Barnibus quietly takes charge of the inves­
tigation at that point, while Sergeant Cromley directs a 
force of twenty cons tables (veteran s) to knock on door s 
and question locals. 
Before allowing the corpses to be removed and taken 
to local temples, Barnibus inspects the scene closely 
and reaches the following conclusions, which he prefers 
to keep to himself but might share with other members 
of the Watchful Order: 
• The gnome was running from armed pursue rs, of 
which there were three. The third person who was 
chasing the gnome isn't among the dead. 
• The gnome and his pursuers were moving toward the 
tavern in Trollskull Alley (which Barnibus will soon 
come to realize is the chara cters' property). 
• Neither the gnome nor his pursuers saw the 
blast coming. 
Given these findings, Barnibus decides to question 
the tavern's owners and occ upant s, with Sergeant 
Cromley by his side as a witness and bodyguard. Spe­
cifically, Barnibus wants to find out the gnome's identity 
and whether he was known to anyone. The characters, 