MEETING VALETTA 
The characters are met by Valetta, a dragonborn priest 
of bronze dragon ancestry, with these changes: 
• Valetta is neutral. 
• She has these racial traits: She can use her action to 
exhale a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot line of lightning (but can't 
do this again until she finishes a short or long rest); 
each creat ure in the line must make a DC 11 Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 2d6 lightning damage on a failed 
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 
She has resistance to lightning damage. She speaks 
Common and Draconic. 
If the characters mention the figure they saw on 
the roof of the temple, Valetta identifies it as Nim, a 
nimblewright that was gifted to the temple by a Lan­
tanese wizard. If they describe the incident involving 
the mechanical bird, Valetta sighs and leads them up a 
spiral staircase to an att ic that Nim uses as a lair- only 
to find the attic's door fitted with a new lock. Valetta 
doesn't recognize the lock or have a key to open it, but 
a characte r using thieves' tools can pick the lock with 
a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. A knock spell or 
similar magic also opens the door. Valetta won't allow 
characters to break down the door, but she does permit 
them to speak to Nim through the door. A character can 
persuad e Nim to unlock the door with a successful DC 
17 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Valetta grants advan­
tage on the roll by strongly urging Nim to comply. 
MEETING NIM 
Nim understands Common but can't speak. It has de­
veloped a sim ple sign language that Valetta and other 
members of the temple staff understand. After the inci­
dent with the bird, Nim hides am id the clutter in its lair, 
but it emerges if the cha racters find their way inside or 
coax it into unlockin g the door. If the characters ask 
about the other nimblewright, Nim admits (through ges­
turing to Valetta) that it built the other nimblewright to 
ease its loneliness. But then Nim's creation Red in con­
fused terror a month ago. and Nim hasn't seen it since. 
In light of this revelation, Valetta angrily orders acolytes 
to remove Nim's tools and unfinished inventions from 
the attic, while she forces Nim to look on. 
Nimblewright Detector. Characters who search 
Nim's attic or watch the area as it's being cleaned out 
can find a 1-foot-long copper contraption with an um­
brella-like metallic protrusion at one end. A detect magic 
spell reveals an aura of divination magic a round it. If 
asked about it, Nim tells Valetta that it built this device 
to find the errant nimblewright and tried to seek it out, 
only to discover that Nim couldn't leave the temple 
grounds. Once Nim expla ins how the nimblewr ight de­
tector works, Valetta allows the characters to take it. 
To activate the nimblewright deteccor, a character 
must hold down its trigger. When the activated device 
comes within 500 feet of a nimblewright other than 
Nim, the umbrella begins to spin, whir, and click. The 
spinning, whirring, and clicking accelerates as the dis ­
tance to the target lessens, reaching maximum velocity 
and volume when a nimblewright other than im is 
within 30 feet of the device. 
N1MBLEWRIGMT DETEC. TOR 
REWARD 
If the characters want LO track down the wayward nim­
blewright themselves, Valetta says that the House of In­
spired Hands will pay them 500 gp to destroy it. If they 
return with proof of its destruction, Valetta sees that 
they receive the promised reward and also offers them 
one each of the following nonmagical inventions: 
Actjustable Stilts . The stilts take 1 minute to put on 
or remove. They increase the height of any humanoid 
wea ring them by 2 to 5 feet. Each stilt weighs 8 pounds 
and is 1 foot long when fully collapsed. 
BacJcpacJc Para chute. A humanoid wearing this piece 
of gear can deploy the parachute as a reaction while fall­
ing, or as an action otherwise. The parachute requires 
at least a 10-foot cube of unoccupied space in which to 
deploy, and it doesn't open fast enough to slow a fall of 
less than 60 feet. If it has sufficient time and space to 
deploy properly, the parachute allows its wearer to land 
without taking falling damage. Once it has been used, 
the parachute takes 10 minutes to repack. 
Barking Box. This metal cube, 6 inches on a side, 
has a crank on top. Using an action to wind the crank 
activaLes the box for 8 hours. While activated, the box 
barks whenever it detects vibrations within 15 feet of it, 
as long as the box and the source of the vibrations are in 
contact with the same ground or substance. A switch on 
one side of the box sets the device to emit either a sma ll 
dog's bark or a large dog's bark. 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALi. 