The dining cabin is bedecked with golden filigree, the 
purple curtains festooned with silken tassels, the wood 
paneling scented with perfume. A magnificent feast laid 
out on golden platters sprawls atop a mahogany table of 
exquisite craftsmanship. Even the doilies are something 
to behold. Standing behind it all with wine glass in hand 
is a well-built, scantily clad man, his scarlet apparel de­
signed to accentuate his trim figure and bountiful chest 
hair. A Aashy rapier hangs from his stylish belt. 
"Welcome aboard the fyecatcher," he says, Aashing his 
pearly white teeth. "Zardoz Zord. at your service." 
This dashing figure is none other than j arlaxle Baenre 
(see appendix B) magically disguised as Zardoz Zord. 
The characters have piqued Jarlaxle's curiosity. He 
doesn't know much about them (yet) and wants to de­
termine whether they pose a threat {they don't). To win 
them over, he shares the following information over din­
ner and wine: 
• The Sea Maidens Faire, owned and operated by Zord, 
is a seafaring carnival based in Luskan that travels 
along the Sword Coast. It provides good, wholesome 
entertainment in the form of fantastic street parades. 
• The Heartbreaker and the Hell raiser are used to 
transport entertainers, wagons, and parade floats. The 
Eyecatcher is Zord's command ship and private yacht. 
All three ships are built for comfort and speed. 
• Zord visits the distant island of Lantan about once 
a year. During his last visit, he purchased four nim­
blewrights from a Lantanese wizard. He keeps two 
aboard bis flagship, and one aboard each of the other 
two vessels. 
• When they're not marching in a parade, Zord's 
nimblewrights remain aboard his ships. "They're 
perfectly harmless, " he attests, whereupon a 
nimblewright holding a decanter enters the dining 
cabin and quietly refills everyone's wine glasses. 
If the characters mention the Stone of Golorr, Zord 
shrugs his shoulders in a manner that suggests he 
doesn't know what they're talking about. He also feigns 
disinterest in Waterdeep politics, saying, "Every city 
has problems, l suppose. My job as an entertainer is 
to make people forget about politics for a while." Char­
acters who are suspicious of Zord can make a DC 24 
Wisdom (Insight) check . Any character who succeeds 
on the check senses that there's much more to him than 
meets the eye. 
Jarlaxle owns a hat of disguise but doesn't need it to 
hide his true form while he's aboard any of his ships. 
His disguise (and the disguises of his drow subordi­
nates) can be dispelled only by destroying the ship's 
figurehead (see chapter 7). If the characters somehow 
discern his true form,Jarlaxle gives the party a slow nod 
of his head, dryly says "Bravo!" and lets them make the 
next move. 
When dinner is concluded, Zord bids the characters 
farewell and sees that they are escorted safely back to 
the docks. 
DROW CHARACTERS 
If the adventuring party includes one or more drow 
characters, Captain Zord pays close attention to what 
they do and say, but doesn't treat them any differently 
from the other party members. 
WHAT RENA ER K NOWS 
At some point during their investigation, the characters 
might want to speak to Renaer Neverember about the 
fireball, given his own recent brush with the Zhentarim. 
Conversely, he could decide to pay them a visit at their 
tavern. If he's told that a gnome and two Zhents were 
killed in the blast, Renaer drops a bombshell: 
"When the Lords ofWate rdeep ousted my father, I 
thought his long, dark shadow was finally gone for good. 
The truth is, I want nothing to do with him. But his spies 
hound me. One of them, a gnome named Dalakhar, had 
been watching me for months. Then, about two tendays 
ago, the spy was suddenly nowhere to be seen. My father 
didn't trust many people, but he trusted that gnome. 
"I spoke to a few of Dalakhar's friends. Apparently, he 
was on a special mission to retrieve the Stone of Golorr 
and was afraid that the Zhentarim and the Xanathar 
Guild were close to catching him. When he heard about 
my kidnapping, he wanted more information about the 
adventurers who had rescued me. I think Dalakhar was 
planning to pay you to deliver the Stone of Colorr to my 
father in Neverwinter." 
Any attempt to follow up with Dalakhar's friends proves 
futile, since they have gone into hiding in the wake of the 
gnome's sudden demise . 
If the characters tell Renaer that Fala Lefaliir saw a 
man fleeing Trollskull Alley (see "Eyewitnesses," page 
45), Renaer reaches out to his friends in the Harpers. 
A day later, he returns with the following information: 
The man Fala saw matches the description ofUrstul 
Floxin, a suspected member of the Black Network. 
• Another North Ward resident claims he saw Urstu l 
enter Gralhund Villa, in the North Ward, shortly after 
the fireball incident. The resident reported him to the 
City Watch because Urstul looked suspicious. 
• Two City Watch constables spoke to Lord Gralhund. 
He assured them that no one had broken into the 
estate and that everything was fine. The constables 
had no grounds to get a search warrant, so they didn't 
pursue the matter. 
CHAPTE R 3 I fl R£BA ll. 