G8. GREAT HALL 
Characters who enter this hall for the first time notice 
the following: 
• The floor is strewn with bodies. Two thug s holding 
bloody maces stand over them. 
• The sound offighting can be hea rd com ing from the 
top of a wide staircase in the northwest corner (see 
area G13). 
Two iron chandeliers hang from the dark mahogany 
ceiling above a long dining table carved from red 
larchwood. Chairs s urround the table, with a parti cu­
larly tall and elaborate cha ir at eac h end. 
• Lining the wood-paneled walls are tapestries and 
locked wooden cabinets that contain fine dish es, sil­
verware, and cand lesticks. 
• A fireplace with a black marble mantelpiece has a 
framed family portrait mounted above it. (The portrait 
depicts Lord and Lady Gralhund, their three young 
children, and a family dog that died three years ago.) 
Corpses. Lying about the room are the bodies of eight 
guards wearing bloody and tattered House Gralhund 
livery over their chain shi rts, as well as two dead Zhents 
in black leather armor. All are humans. 
Thuts. The two figures with maces are Zhents clad in 
black leather armor. Their orde rs are to hold the room. 
They attack strangers, including members of the City 
Watch, on sight. They carry no treasure. 
G9. PARLOR 
Urstul Floxin was confined here when he returned to 
the villa, but shortly thereafter he killed his guards and 
escaped. The room is furnished for comfort and con­
tains dainty chairs, a chaise longue, a wine cabinet, and 
framed paintings of various long-dead members of the 
Gralhund family. 
Corpses. The bodies of the two guards lie atop blood­
soa ked rugs. The guards wear chain shirts and the liv­
ery of House Gralhund. 
GlO. DEN AND TROPHY ROOM 
Lord Gralhund's den has the heads of various beasts 
mounted on the walls and gleaming suits of armor 
sta nding at attention in the corners. Bearskin rugs and 
overstuffed cha irs fill che room. 
Lord Gralhund recently took up falconry as a hobby. 
In the middle of the room, resting on a table, is a cage 
containing a hooded falcon (use hawk sta tistics). 
GI I. OROND'S STUDY 
The door to this room is locked. The lock can be picked 
by a character who makes a s uccess ful DC 15 Dexterity 
check using thieves' tools. The room has these features: 
• A 10-foot-square canvas wrestling mat is sprawled on 
the floor in the middle of the room. 
• Velvet armchairs, sma ll statues of naked men on ped­
estals, and tall mahogany bookshelves are arrang ed 
neatly around the room. 
• A mahogany desk in one corner doesn't look like it 
sees much use. 
Books. Most of the books are fake boxes made of 
painted cardboard. A few have bawdy drawings and sa­
lacious poems hidden inside them. 
Gl2. FAMILY LIBRARY 
The wood-paneled librar y includes these features: 
• Tall bookshelves are packed with tomes. Sliding 
wooden ladders mounted on rails allow easy access to 
higher shelves. 
In one corner stands an iron lectern with a closed, 
locked, leather -bound tome resting on it. 
• Two padded chairs face a large fireplace. One has a 
wolf skin draped over it. 
Books . Many of the books were handed down to Lady 
Gralhund by her parents, and they are well kept. They 
include historical texts, play scrip ts, novels, and poetry 
collect ions. 
Lock ed Tome. Although it looks like it might be a 
spellbook, the tome on the lectern is a chronicle of the 
Gralhund family's accomplishments, embellished or 
recast to paint the family in the most favorable light. A 
detect magic spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic 
emanating from the tome. 
The tome is meant to be unlocked using a key that 
Lady Gralhund wear s on a chain around her neck. The 
lock can be picked by a charac ter who succeeds on a 
DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, or it can be 
opened with a knock spell or similar magic. Opening 
the book by any mean s other than using the proper key 
causes three specters to appear within 10 feet of the 
book and attack its opener. The magic that binds the 
spec ters has weakened over time; they ca n exist on the 
Material Plane for only J minute, after which time they 
are banished to the Ethereal Plane (unless destroyed 
first). The specters manifest as ghostly tiefiiogs with 
elongated fingers. 
The Gralbund family crest appears on the book's title 
page. The rest of the book is written in Commo n and de­
scribes births , death s, and other family events between 
J 239 DR, the Year of the Bloodied Sword, and 1422 
DR, the Year of Advancing S hadows. Of particular note 
is the little-known fact that the Gralhunds forged pacts 
with devils in yea rs past, giving rise to a strain of tief­
lings. All such members of the house were sent to live 
on a Gralhund estate in Yartar, a city far to the north (or 
so the book claims in its epilogue), and there are pass­
ing references to some Waterdavian family members 
having been born with tails. 
Gl3. UPSTAIRS FOYER 
A lot is happening in this elegant foyer: 
• A battle rages between severa l Zhents and house 
guards , and the floor is strewn with dead bodies. 
• Doors to the mast er bedroom (area G16) stand open. 
(If Lady Gralhund is in the master bedroom, she 
shouts, "The City Watch is on the way!") 
• The door to area Gl5a is ajar. Beyond it, chara cters 
can hear someone putting a boot to another door. 
Corpses. Lying on the floor are the corpses and weap­
ons of six guards wearing House Gralhund livery over 
chain shirts and two Zhents in black leather armor. 
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBA LL 