LOOS E E NDS 
You can use the following optiona l even t to address 
what happ ens to the Zhentarim in the aftermath. 
B AD nME To BE A ZHENT 
Within days after the events that local broadsheets 
dub the "Gra lhund Villa Bloodbath," the City Watch 
cracks down on the Black Netwo rk. Even members of 
the Zhentarim who have no known criminal ties a re 
round ed up and inter rogated, including Davi! Starsong 
(see appendix B). Characters who are members of the 
faction are safe for the time being, as long as they keep 
a low profile. Otherwise, they too are rounded up and 
questioned over a period of seve ral days. until the Lords 
of Waterdeep ascertain their level of involvement in the 
violence at Gralhund Villa. The broadsheets jump on the 
bandwagon by portraying the Black Network in the most 
unflattering light, thus dealing a cripplin g blow to the 
faction 's already questionable reputation. 
ENCOUNTER WITH !STRID HORN 
This encounte r occurs only if the characte rs were di­
rectly involved in the events that transpired at Gra lhund 
Villa. After Davit Starsong is taken in for questioning , 
l strid Horn (see appendix B) sends a message to the 
cha racte rs by way of a Oying snake. The message, writ­
ten in Common, reads as follows: 
I would like to know more about what happened at Gral· 
hund Villa. If you can spare the time, meet me at Ahghai­
ron's Statue in the City of the Dead at highsun tomorrow. 
You'll be paid generously for your time and trouble. 
- lstrid Horn 
If the characte rs attend the meeting, use the following 
boxed text to help set the scene, e mbellishing it to reflect 
the season: 
Ahghairon's Statue is a well-known landmark in the city's 
parkland cemetery: a tall, marble sculpture of a bearded. 
robed wizard standing atop concentric steps and facing 
west toward the skyline ofWaterdeep, his hands out· 
stretched and a broad smile on his face. At the foot of the 
statue stands a female dwarf clad in plate armor. 
If the weather is fair, characters can see pedes trian s, 
picnickers, and frolicking childr en throughout the cem-
CHAPTER 3 I FIREBALL 
etery grounds. It's clear that Istrid chose a safe , public 
place for the meeting. Characters who succeed on a DC 
15 Wisdom (Insig ht) chec k can tell that she came alone. 
Istrid fears being arrested by the City Watch. Although 
she wasn't involved in the matters concerning Gralhund 
Villa, s he is worried that the Watch will uncover her 
illegal cur rency-lending operation in the cou rse of its 
investigations. She offers the characters 10 pp just for 
meeting with her and promises another 40 pp if the 
charac ters agree to help her lie low for a tenday-half to 
be paid once a deal is struck and half at the end of her 
stay. If they decline her offer and the party includes one 
or more Zhentarim members, she threatens that if she's 
arrested and charged with a crime, she will reveal their 
affiliation and bring them down with her. 
Hiding Istrid. If the charac ters decide to let Istrid 
bide out at their tavern, she uses a disguise kit to make 
herself up to be a male dwarf named Jorn. If asked to 
do so, she's willing to perform chores around the place 
once she settles in. Ultimately, no one comes looking for 
her, but the longer she stays hidden , the more testy and 
demanding she becomes. 
Jf the characters tolerate her bad behavior, Istrid 
leaves at the end of the tenday as promised and pays 
characters the remainder of what she owes. Characters 
who are members of the Zhentarim gain an added bene­
fit for harboring Istrid in her time of need: their renown 
in the faction increases by 2. 
If, on the other hand, the characters throw her out or 
rat her out to the City Watch, Istrid becomes their mor­
tal enemy and tries to undermin e them at every turn. 
Harming Istrid. As a precaution against being dou­
ble-crossed, lstrid shared her plan concerning the 
characters with at least one other member of the Doom 
Raiders (see appendix B). If the characters betray or 
harm Istrid, her former adventuring companions use 
every resource at their disposal to ruin the characters. 
The laws of Waterdeep discoura ge them from attacking 
the characters open ly, but they can damage the party's 
business by scaring off their clientele, and characters 
might find themselves the targets of worse if they dare 
to leave the confines of the city. 
LEVEL ADVANCEMENT 
If you're leveling up characters using story milestones 
instead of tracking experience points, the characters ad­
vance from 3rd to 4th level if they conducted their own 
investigation into the fireball incident and affected the 
outcome of events in Gralhund Villa. Otherwise, they 
are still 3rd level at the sta rt of chapter 4. 