The Xanathar Guild makes one last attempt to regain 
the stone (encounter 1, "Alley"). Any cha racter who be­
comes attuned to the stone learns that the Vault of Drag­
ons lies beneath a theater in the Cast le Ward (encounter 
6, "Theater"). 
W E AT H ER E FFE CTS 
Until the encounter chain is comp lete, the following 
weather effects a re in play. 
Heavy Rain. Heavy rain falls from noon until mid­
night. Creatures in the rain have disadvantage on Wis­
dom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight. 
The rain also extinguishes open Rames. Visibility is 
reduced to 60 feet. 
Thick Fog. From midnight until noon, the city is en­
gulfed in thick fog. Creatures in the fog have disadvan­
tage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight. 
Visibility is reduced to 30 feet. 
SUMMER ENCOUNTER CHAIN 
As Waterdavians contend with swe ltering heat, the Cas­
salanters send disciples of their Asmodeus-worshiping 
cult to seize the Stone ofColorr while deftly avoiding 
entanglements with local authorities. 
SUMMA RY 
The characte rs arrive at the Cassa lanter mausoleum to 
find several dead cultists inside (encounter 4, "Mauso­
leum"). A left-for-dead survivor reveals that these cult­
ists were betrayed by two of their own. The characters 
head to an old windmill in the Southern Ward where the 
cult fanatics practice their diabolical faith (encounter 10, 
"Converted Windmill'"). Spined devils swoop in, snatch 
the stone, and flee, setting up a rooftop chase (encounter 
5, "Rooftop Chase"). 
The spined devils deliver the stone to a hire-coach 
parked in an alley(encounter 1, "Alley"). Inside the 
coach is Victoro Cassalanter's valet, Willifort Crowelle, 
a doppelganger in tiefling form. As the hire-coach flees, 
a street chase ensues (encounter 3, "Street Chase"). 
When a crowd cuts off his escape route, Willi fort leaps 
out of the hire-coac h and tries to lose himself in the 
crowd. In the confusion, street urchins snatch the stone. 
The cha racters catch up to the children in their cellar 
hideout (encounte r 9, "Cellar Complex"). 
With the Stone ofColorr in their possession, the 
characters emerge from the cellar complex only to find 
themselves su rrounded by members of the City Watch. 
They are arrested for one or more crimes and taken to 
a courthouse in the Dock Ward to face sentencing by a 
IF A V I LLAIN GETS THE STONE 
If a main villain acquires the Stone of Golorr, it takes that 
villain 2d6 days to find the Vault of Dragons and its keys. 
During this time, the characters have a chance to steal the 
stone from the villain's lair. If the characters don't steal the 
stone in time, the villain sends forces into the vault to de-
feat Aurinax and recover the gold, which takes another 2d6 
days. Once the gold is recovered, the villain moves forward 
with a master plan as detailed in the introduction. If the 
characters are still alive, they could oppose the villain by 
stealing the gold from the villain's lair. 
Ol-IAP'TER 4 I DRAGON SE.\SON 
magister (encounte r 8, "Courthouse"). Meanwhile, the 
doppelganger tries to get the stone back. 
Any character who becomes attuned to the Stone 
of Colorr learns that the Vault of Dragons is hidden 
under an old tower in the Sea Ward (encounter 7, "Old 
Tower"). When they arrive al the lower, they encounter 
its new owner, who is discussing renovations with vari­
ous loca l guild members. 
W EAT HER EFFE CTS 
Until the encounter chain is complete, the folJowing 
weather effect is in play. 
Heat Wave. During the day, a character without 
access to dri nkable water must succeed on a DC 10 
Constitution saving throw at the end of each encounter 
in the chain or gain one level of exhaustion. The saving 
throw is made with disadvantage if the character is 
wearing medium or heavy armor. Characters who have 
resistance or immunity to fire automatical ly succeed on 
the sav ing throw. 
AUTUMN ENCOUNTER CHAIN 
Deception and misdirection arejarlaxle's forte, and he 
likes to trick his rivals into working for him. He steers 
the characters toward the Stone ofColorr and lees them 
think they're always one step ahead. Drow player char­
acters who are members of Bregan D'aerthe might find 
their loyalty to the party put to the test. 
SU MMARY 
The characters visit the residence of Fenerus Storm­
castle, a lamplighter and retired brigand who funnels 
information to Bregan D'aerthe. They arrive to find the 
place ransacked (encounter l, "Alley"). The duergar 
who looted the residence work for the Xanathar Guild, 
and Bregan D'aerthe spies have tracked them to a 
cellar complex in the Southern Ward. In the guise of 
Laeral Silverhand,jarlaxle steers the characters in that 
direction (encounter 9, "Cellar Complex"). A search of 
the cellar complex yields a fake stone, but not the real 
Stone ofColorr. With no other leads, the characters can 
follow up with "Laeral" at a theater in the Dock Ward 
(encounter 6, "Theater ").Jarlaxle makes the charact ers 
an offer they can't refuse, setting his agents on them if 
they dare to do so. 
Once he realizes the Xanalhar Guild doesn't have 
the slone,Jarlaxle asks the characters to interrogate 
Fenerus to find out where he hid it.jarlaxle has learned 
that Fenerus is awaiting trial at a courthouse in the Cas­
tle Ward (encounter 8, "Courthouse"). Fenerus wants 
immunity for all of his past crimes. The characte rs are 
in no position to grant his wish, but they might threaten 
him, persuade him, or use magic to charm him. If he is 
compe lled to revea l the stone's location, Fenerus points 
the cha racters to an old tower in the Dock Ward (en­
counte r 7, "Old Tower"). 
Jarlaxle's lieutenants reach the stone first and flee 
across the rooftops in the Dock Ward to escape the 
charac ters (encounter 5, "Rooftop Chase"). They go to 
ground in Mistshore (encount er 2, ''Mistshore") . Once 
the characters wrest the stone away from these drow, 
they can use it to guide them lo the home of a famous 