painter in the Sea Ward (encounter 10, "Converted 
Windmill"), beneath which is a tunnel that leads to the 
Vault of Dragons. 
WEATHER EFFECTS 
Until the encounter chain is complete, the following 
weather effect is in play. 
Autumn Wind. Wind whistling through the streets 
imposes disadvantage on ranged weapon attack rolls 
and Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing. 
The wind also extinguishes open fires sma ller than a 
torch flame. 
WINTER ENCOUNTER CHA I N 
Now is the winter of Waterdeep's discontent. The 
Zhents who serve Manshoon believe the ir master to be 
all-powerful, which has made them reckless. Against a 
frigid backdrop, they're willing to thumb their noses at 
loca l authorities and risk death in pursuit of the Stone 
ofGolorr. 
SUMMARY 
The stone is delivered to Thrakkus, a dragonborn 
butcher in the Field Ward (encounter 10, "Converted 
Windmill"). Thrakkus hides the stone in one of his meat 
deliveries. The characters follow the delivery cart to an 
alley in the Trades Ward where Zhents meet in secret 
(encounter 1, "Alley"). Before the characters can lay 
hands on the stone, a Zhent named Yevette Blackwater 
grabs it and flees, initiating a chase across icy rooftops 
(encounter 5, .. Rooftop Chase"). She hands off the stone 
to Agorn Fuoco, a bard who is attending a play in a 
nearby theater (encounter 6, "Theater"), before leading 
her pursuers on a merry chase through the snow-cov­
ered streets (encounter 3, "Street Chase"). The charac­
ters learn that the stone has been taken by hire-coach to 
Mistshore. The characte rs can catch up to Agorn there 
(encounter 2, "Mistshore"). 
If he is captured and questioned, Agoro reveals that 
he made one stop on his way to Mistshore. He dropped 
off a lady friend, a priest of Bane allied with the Zhen­
tarim, and left the stone with her and her acolytes for 
safekeeping. The characters can find them in an old 
tower in the Castle Ward (encounter 7, "Old Tower"). Be­
fore they leave that place, the characte rs are confronted 
by Manshoon' s simulac rum , which arrives by way of 
teleportation circle to collect the stone. Once the simu­
lacrum is defeated, the characters can use the stone to 
learn that the entrance to the Vault of Dragons is hidden 
below a mausoleum in the City of the Dead (encounter 4, 
"Mausoleum"). 
WEATHER EFFECTS 
Until the encounter chain is complete, the following 
weather effects are in play. 
Blizzard . Shrieking wind and falling snow impose 
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely 
on hearing or sight. The wind also extinguishes open 
fires sma ller than a torch Harne. Visibility is reduced to 
60 feet. Snow on the ground creates difficult terrain in 
areas that are not heavily trod. 
Extreme Cold. A character exposed to the cold must 
succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw at the 
end of each encounter in the chain or gain one level of 
exha ustion. Characters who have resistance or immu­
nity to cold automatically succeed on the saving throw, 
as do those wearing cold weather gear (thick coats, 
gloves, hats, and the like). 
ENCOUNTER 1: ALLEY 
Use map 4.1 for this encounter. The buildings that bor­
der the alley are 30 feet (three stories) high unless you 
decide otherwise. Since this encounter occurs outdoors, 
be mindful of any weather effects in play. 
AREA S OF THE ALLEY 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.1. 
LI. ALLEY RESIDENCE 
This old, one-story, windowless stone house with a slate 
roof is tucked in the middle of the alley, surrounded by 
taller buildings. Its doors are made of sturdy wood, and 
the outer door can be barred shut from within. Break­
ing down the barred door requires a successful DC 18 
Strength (Athletics) check. 
The interior is divided into two rooms, a kitchen with 
a fireplace and a plainly furnished bedroom. 
L2. STORE 
This stone building is a store of one kind or another. 1f 
an encounter doesn't specify the goods sold here, roll 
a d20 and consult the Store Goods table to determine 
what the store sells. 
A sma ll room serves as a cloakroom, where visitors 
can hang their heavier overgarrnents. Past the cloak­
room is the store proper, with wares on display. The 
room to the north is a storeroom or a workshop. The 
store owner (commoner ) has keys to all doors. 
STORE Gooos 
d20 Goods d20 Goods 
1 Art 11 Hats 
2 Books 12 Hunting traps 
3 Candles 13 Locks and keys 
4 Cartwheels 14 Musical instruments 
5 Costumes 15 Pets 
6 Dolls 16 Pots 
7 Fresh meat 17 Rations 
8 Furniture 18 Rugs 
9 Games 19 Umbrellas 
10 Glass 20 Wine 
MOD IFYIN G ENCOUN TERS 
You can adjust the difficulty of a combat encounter by add­
ing or subtracting monsters. If you need to increase the 
difficulty of an encounter that has already begun, have en­
emy reinforcements arrive during the battle. If you find an 
encounter too deadly, reduce the antagonists' hit points, 
have NPCs arrive to help the characters, or have the bad 
guys cut their losses and flee. 
C HAPTE R 4 I DRAGON SEASO N 