I 
I 
MAP 4.1. ALLEY 
ALLEY: SPRING 
When this encounter begins. either the characters have 
the Stone of Go!orr in their clutches. in which case 
they're jumped as they move through an alley near the 
tower- or it was taken from them by Xanathar's gazer 
spies, in which case they catch up with the gazers in the 
alley before the creatures can descend into the sewers. 
BEAR TRAPS 
Choose five squares on the map. These squares con­
tain deep puddles of muddy water. Hidden within each 
puddle is a spring-loaded bear trap. A creat ure that has 
a passive Perception score of 13 or higher spots a trap 
before accidentally stepping in it. 
Any creature that steps into a trap's square must 
make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed 
save, the creature takes 3 (ld6) slashing damage as 
the trap snaps shut around its ankle. and the creature 
is restrained until the trap is removed. As an action, a 
creature can try to pry open the trap. doing so with a 
successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check . 
AMBUSHERS 
The characters enter the alley followed by eight kobolds 
disgui sed as children wearing troll masks. A bugbea r 
nam ed Morga and an inte llect devour er hide in a door­
way halfway down the alley and can be spotted with a 
successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. 
When the characters reach Morga's hiding spot, the 
bugb ea r and the kobolds attack. The intellect devourer 
C H APTER 4 I DRACON SEASON 
.. 
1 square = 5 feet 
I 
stays hidden and tries to take control of a character. 
Given the chance, Morga tries to shove a cha racter into 
the nearest trap. If these creatures obtain the stone. they 
bring it to Xanathar in its lair (see chapter 5). 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If a cha racter becomes attuned to the Stone ofGolorr, 
it reveals the locat ion of the Vault of Dragons, below 
a theater in the Cast le Ward called the Pink Flumph . 
and the three keys that are needed to ente r it. When the 
characters are ready to visit the location, proceed with 
encounte r 6, "Theater." 
ALLEY: SUMMER 
The characters begin this encounter on the rooftops 
overlooking the alley. If any characters went to ground 
during the rooftop chase, start them at one end of the 
alley instead. 
HIRE - COACH 
Parked in the middle of the alley is a hire-coach pulled 
by two draft horses. The driver. Haru Hamatori (LG 
male Kozakuran human commoner ), wears a feathered 
cap and matching outfit. 
Lord Cassalanter's dopp elga nger valet. in the guise of 
an elderly tiefling named Willifort Crowelle, sits in the 
passenger cab, which grants half cover. Standing next to 
the hire-coach is a bea rded devil disguised as a cloaked 
human bodyguard wearing a wide-brimmed hat, and 
perched on the coach are three invisible imps. Any 