s pined devils that survived the previous encounter are 
also present, having just delivered the Stone ofGolorr to 
Willi fort. 
When he sees the characters, Willi fort orders the 
imps and the spined devils to attack. The bearded devil 
stays close to Willi fort and engages any character who 
tries to reach the hire-coach. 
The hire-coach has AC 14, 45 hit points, and immunity 
to poison and psychic damage. 
If there's any chance that the characters might obtain 
the Stone o!Golorr as the encounter progresses, Willi­
fort orders the driver to move the hire-coach out of the 
alley as quickly as possible. Tf the driver is incapacitated 
or killed. the bearded devil climbs into the driver's seat 
on the back of the coach and steers the vehicle. If che 
bearded devil is unable to replace the driver, the doppel­
ganger takes the reins. Willifort Rees on foot if the hire­
coach is destroyed or its horses are unable to move. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If Willi fort escapes and the characters pursue him, pro­
ceed with encounter 3, ''Street Chase." 
ALLEY: AUTUMN 
The characters' quest for the Stone of Golorr first leads 
them to Fenerus Stormcastle, a lamplighter who rents a 
small house in the Trades Ward (area Ll). 
APPLE CART 
The characters enter the alley from eithe r end. Deter­
mine their marching order. then read the following text 
once they reach the alley's midpoint: 
A cart laden with apples comes careening toward you 
from the opposite direction, rolling downhill. Riding on 
the cart is a tieAing boy with an eye patch, screaming at 
the top of his lungs. "Look out!" he shouts. 
A character in the path of the apple cart must succeed 
on a DC 10 Dexterity sav ing throw or be struck for 5 
(2d4) bludgeoning damage and knocked prone. A char ­
acter can forgo the Dexterity saving throw and try to 
stop the cart bodily, doing so with a successful DC 15 
Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the character is 
struck by the cart and falls prone as it continues to roll. 
After plowing through the party, the cart Hips on its side. 
sending apples tumbling down the alley. The tiefiing boy 
is thrown from the cart but not serious ly hurt. 
The boy is one of three street urchins who teamed up 
to steal the apple cart from a nearby street corner. The 
other two children lost control of the cart at the crest 
of the alley before they could hop on. They catch up to 
their friend after the crash, make sure he's all right, and 
then apologize profusely to anyone who was hurt. The 
urchins, harmless troublemakers, are detai led in the 
sidebar ''The Three Urch ins." 
If they are asked about Fenerus, the children know 
who he is. They describe him as a big man with graying 
hair who looks like he has been in many fights, based 
on "the scars he wears on his face." They know nothing 
more about him, other than that he lives alone. 
If the characters don't frighten them away, the chil­
dren loiter around the alley, eating apples and picking 
through garbage piles. 
FENERUS's HOUSE 
The door to Fenerus's house stands open, and the place 
has been ransacked. Painted in blood on the kirchen 
wall is a circle with ten equidistant lines radiating out­
ward from its circumfe rence: the sign of Xanathar. A 
thorough search accompanied by a success ful DC 12 
Wisdom (Perception) check reveals sma ll pools of blood 
on the kitchen floor. A successful check also verifies that 
the blood on the floor and wall is fresh. 
FENERUS'S STORY 
Fenerus Stormcastle was the founder of the Blood 
Haw k Posse, a gang of horse -riding brigands that, to 
this day. harri es travele rs on the road to Amphail. When 
he was drummed out of the gang after a botched raid, 
Fenerus ''retired" to Waterdeep and joined the Guild of 
Chandlers and Lamplighters. 
Until recently, Fenerus supplemented his income by 
spying for the city ofLuskan and providing his contacts 
with information on the political climate in Waterde ep, 
as well as ju icy bits of news overheard on his nightly 
rounds through the Trades Ward. He has no clue that 
his contacts are drow members of Bregan D'aerthe, 
since they wear cloaks and keep co the shadows. 
Agents of the Lords' Alliance recently labeled Fene rus 
as a wanted brigand and notified the Lords ofWater­
deep , who sent the City Watch to arrest him. Fenerus 
had the good sense to hide the Stone of Golorr else­
where and hopes to use it as leverage to gain his free ­
dom as well as forgiveness for past crimes . 
Shortly after Fene rus's arrest, drow agents of Bregan 
D'aerthe showed up to collecr the stone and were way­
laid by invisible duergar hiding in the alley. The duergar 
were members of the Xanathar Guild that had been sent 
by Nar'l Xibrindas (see appendix B) to retrieve the stone. 
After searching Fenerus's home and finding noth ing, 
they were waiting for Fenerus to return when the drow 
showed up. The drow barely got away with their lives. 
jARLAXLE IN DISGUISE 
Before the characters leave the alley,Jarlaxle Baenre 
(see appendix B) uses his hat of disguise to approach 
THE THREE URCHINS 
Three street urchins, described below, appear in several of 
this chapter's scenes: 
Nat is a lanky, 10-year-old deafllluskan girl with a wooden 
toy sword. She is the leader of the group and communi­
cates using a sign language that she invented and taught 
to her friends. 
Jenks is a portly 9-year-old Turami boy with a cloak, a toy 
wand, and a stuffed owlbear "familiar." He's shy around 
strangers but brave when it comes to helping his friends. 
Squiddly is a slim 9·year-old tiefling boy with an eye patch, 
a small bow, and a quiver of toy arrows. He rarely thinks 
before he talks or acts. 
C HAPT ER • I DRAGON SEASO N 