MAP 4.2: MtSTSHORE 
Xanathar has learned where he is being kept . Any bug­
bears that survived the initial attack try to rescue Ott, 
while Avareen and Zorbog do their best to fight them off. 
If Ott is set free , he runs back to the waiting eyestalks of 
his insane beholder master. Characters who follow him 
are led stra ight to Xanathar's lair (see chapter 5). 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Any characters within 10 feet of the Zhents ' front door 
can make a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check. Those 
who succeed on the check hear a mocking laugh above 
the howling wind and glimpse a cloake d figure on a 
nearby roof, darting away thro ugh the blizzard. If the 
characters chase after this figure, proceed with encoun­
ter 5, "Rooftop Chase." 
ENCOUNTER 2: MISTSHORE 
Mistshore is a run-down Dock Ward neighborhood 
that reeks of fish and scorc hed timber . A fire swept 
through the area a little over a yea r ago, and most of 
the buildings are now burned-o ut shells with (at best) 
sai ls for roofs. Fishing poles and nets line the dock, and 
the 15-foot-deep water is covered by a thick layer of ice 
during the winter. 
AREAS OF MISTSHORE 
Mistshore is a riotous assemb lage of ramshackle homes 
made of wood from old sh ips and inhabited by impov­
erished Waterdavians. Several buildings were reduced 
1 square = 5 feet 
to ash by the fire last year . Although some were rebuilt, 
others were ruined beyond repair and are now used as 
roofless dens by homeless children and rats . 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.2. 
Dl. KRAKEN'S FOLLY 
The Kraken's Folly is a beached pirate s hip that some 
residents of Mistshore use as a tenemen t. At any given 
time, 4d6 bandits loiter on deck, hoping that someone 
who needs muscle will offer them work. These ruffians 
live in the rat-infested cabins belowdecks . They are will­
ing to come to the aid of anyone who asks - for a price. 
Each demands 1 gp to get involved in a fight or create a 
distraction on behalf of their emp loyer. 
D2. GRINDA'S RESIDENCE 
A mad treasure hunter named Grinda Garloth (CN 
female Illuskan human mage who speaks Common, 
Dwarvish, Halfting, and Undercommon) lives here. Her 
ramshackle home contains an unmade bed, an alche­
mist's laboratory , a small stove, a coat rack, a table, a 
stoo l, a stuffed chai r in poor condition, a wash basin, 
and a locked wooden sea chest with a glyph of warding 
spe ll cast on it. Grinda car ries the key, and the glyph 
triggers an explosive ru nes effect (see the spell descrip ­
tion in the Player 's Handbook) if anyone other than 
Grinda lifts the lid of the chest. 
Chest . Grinda's chest contains a heavy iron key that 
locks and unlocks the Garloth family mausoleum in the 
City of the Dead (see "Mistsho re: Spring" below). 
CHAPTER 4- I DRAGON SEASON 