When the children see the characters for the first 
time, their interest is piqued. The children fancy them­
selves adventurers of sorts, and they are quick to idol­
ize and emulate real-life ones. Squidd ly even has the 
audacity to hurl a snowball at one of them (+O bonus to 
hit). The children know who Agorn Fuoco is because he 
used to Jive and play music in Mistshore. They offer to 
lead characters to his mother 's residence. 
M OTHER AND SON 
Pick one of the unmark ed buildings on map 4.2 to serve 
as the Fuoco residence. Agorn Fuoco (NE male Turami 
bard ; see appendix B) is inside, trying to smother his 
bedridden mother, Marta (N female Turami human 
commoner with 1 hit point), with a sack she uses as a 
pillowcase. With tears born of joy and sadness stream­
ing down his face, Agorn is cutting loose his old family 
ties and embracing his new family: the Zhentarim. The 
characters can stop him from comm itting matricide by 
pulling him away from his mother before she suffocates. 
Agorn was moved to perpetrate this act by the play he 
saw at the theater and by his lady friend, Amath Sercent, 
to whom he entrusted the Stone ofGolorr. He won't give 
up her location willingly, though magic can be used to 
pry the information from his lips. Characters can also 
speak to the hire-coach driver. Rowan Evenwood, who 
dropped off Agorn's lady friend before transporting 
Agoro to Mistshore. Amath lives in an old tower in the 
Castle Ward ca lled Yellowspire. 
Z H ENTS IN THE WrND 
As the characters leave the Fuoco residence, with or 
without Agorn as their prisoner, they a re surrounded 
by nine Zhentarim thugs . The thugs fight to the death 
while Agorn tries to escape. If he gets away, the charac­
ters might encounter him again in chapter 8. 
As the Zhents attack and Agorn attempts to flee, the 
characte rs bear a child 's scream coming from the oppo­
site direction. Through the blowing snow, they can see 
that one of the urchins, Jenks, has fallen through a thin 
patch of ice and is in dang er of sinking to the bottom of 
the harbor. His two friends are trying to pull him out of 
the hole, but he's too heavy. The children are roughly 30 
feet away. A character within arm's reach of Jenks can 
use an action to try to pull the boy from the cold water, 
doing so with a successful DC 11 Strength (Athletics) 
check. If no adult comes toJenks 's aid within 1 minute 
of his falling through the ice, he sinks below the surface 
and begins to drown as the cold water overcomes him. 
If the characters find themselves outmatched by the 
Zhents , help comes in two forms. Two Harper spies 
sent by Remallia Haventree (see appendix B) appear 
on the scene. Their names are Salazar Lorrance (CG 
male Tethyrian human) and Mavia Oxlander (NG female 
Chondathan human). If the battle doesn't turn quickly in 
the party's favor, Grinda Garloth (see area 02) appears 
and uses her magic to aid them. 
NEXT ENC OUNTER 
Armed with information from Agorn Fuoco or his hire­
coach driver, the characters might feel compe lled to pay 
a visit to Yellowspire in the Castle Ward. Proceed with 
encounter 7, "Old Tower:· 
CHAPTER. 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
ENCOUNTER 3: 
STREET CHASE 
For this encounter , use the chase rules and the Urban 
Chase Complications table in chapter 8 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide. The chase plays out as a "theater of the 
mind" experience. Consequently, you don't need a map 
to run the encounter. The chase occurs outdoors, so be 
mindful of any weather effects in play. 
STREET CHA SE : S PRI NG 
A ke nku in cahoots with theXanathar Guild has the 
Stone of Golorr and is running th rough the streets with 
it. The kenku is 60 feet away from the characters at the 
start of the chas e. 
If at any point the kenku is incapacitated, another 
kenku previously bidden by the rain or fog joins the 
chase, acting next in the initiative count. It suddent ly 
appears, snatches the stone, and flees with it. 
NEXT E NCOUNTER 
When the characters are close to catching the kenku, or 
when you want the chase to end, the creature ducks into 
an old tower. Proceed with encounter 7, "Old Towe r." 
STREET CHA SE: SUMM ER 
The characters are pursuing Lord Cassalanter's doppel­
ganger valet, Willifort, as he flees in a hire-coach or on 
foot. The chase takes place on crowded streets, in front 
of agog spectators. 
[f you haven't been tracking the distance between the 
doppelganger and the characters, assume the charac­
ters are 120 feet away from their quarry at the start of 
the chase if Willi fort is traveling by hire-coach, or 60 
feet away if the doppelganger is on foot. The hire-coach 
has an initiative modifier of +O, and Willifort moves with 
it. A creature in the hire -coach doesn't need to roll on 
the Urban Chase Complications table on its turn. 
CROWDED STREET 
If Willi fort flees in a hire-coach, his getaway is thwarted 
on the third round of the chase when a large crowd 
blocks the road. forcing the hire-coach to stop. (If the 
chase occurs on Founders' Day, the crowd is part of the 
holiday celebration.) The doppelganger jumps out of the 
hire-coach on his next turn and makes his way through 
the crowd on foot. 
Any creature in the crowd has half cover, and any at­
tack that misses the creature because of the cover hits 
an innocent commoner instead. 
If Willi fort is incapacitated, a raven abrubtly swoops 
down, acting next in the initiative count. It snatches the 
stone and flees with it. This raven is a shapechanged 
imp that works for Lady Cassalanter. 
STREET URCHINS 
The chase ends when three street urchins (see "The 
Three Urchins," page 63) steal the stone, either by 
pickpocketing it from the doppelganger or by shooting a 
toy arrow at the raven and causing it to drop the stone . 