MAP 4.3 : MAUSOL EUM 
mausoleum is sealed tight, and the name BRANDATH 
is etched above its entrance . Large elm and birch trees 
grow around the structure, sheltering it as best they can 
with their leafless boughs. 
GUARDIAN TREANT 
The largest tree grow ing in front of the entrance is a 
treant. It awakens when one or more creatu res ap­
proach the entrance and growls, "Only those of Bran­
dath blood are welcome here! Begone!" The treant is 
particularly surly, it being winter and all. 
If someone other than a Brandath descendant tries to 
open the mausoleum, the treant animates two nearby 
trees and then attacks. The treant and its animated al­
lies are too big to enter the mausoleum. 
The characters can kill the treant, try to slip past it, or 
retreat until they learn more about the Brandath family. 
A day's research followed by a successfu l DC 10 Intelli­
gence (Investigation) check reveals that the characters 
know one such person: Renaer Neverember. If they ask 
Renaer to admit them to the Brandath family mauso­
leum, he agrees to do so. Because the treant can sense 
that Renaer has Brandath blood in his veins, it allows 
him and those he calls his friends to enter unmolested, 
and says to Renaer in passing, "Your mother was a 
lovely person." 
GLYPH OF WARDING 
A glyph of warding spell has been cast on the first step 
leading down to the underground level, set to trigger 
when a humanoid creature passes over the step . The 
... 
~·"'.A' ,• 
~··· · -~ 
1 squar e = 5 feet 
glyph can't be spotted unless the dust on the floor is 
cleared away by a gust of wind spell or some other 
means. Once the dust is swept aside, a character who 
searches the stai rs notices the glyph with a successfu l 
DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check . 
If the glyph is triggered, it erupts with magical fire in 
a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on it. The fire spreads 
around corners. Each creature in the area must make 
a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) fire 
damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much dam­
age on a successful one. The glyph disappears after it is 
triggered. 
ULD'S RESTING P LACE 
A detect magic spell reveals an aura of transmutation 
that emana tes from one of the stone coffins on the un­
derground level. This crypt contains the shattered bones 
of Uld Brandath, a Waterdavian magister who died in 
a freak accident decades ago. (A gargoyle broke off the 
corner of a government building and fell on Uld, c rush­
ing him.) Guarding his remains are six crawlin g claws 
made from the hands of murderers who were sentenced 
to death by Uld. These undead hands spring out an d at­
tack when the lid is lifted or shoved aside. 
Treasure. Lying amid the bones is Uld's headband 
of intel/ect, which the characters can retrieve once the 
crawling claws are dealt with. 
P ATH TO THE VAULT 
The collapsed eastern end of the underground level is 
actually an illusion that conceals an intact, 10-foot-wide 
CHAPTER .} I DRAGON SEASON 