passag eway that s lopes down. Th e characters ca n walk 
right through the illusion, which has no s ubstan ce, and 
a dispel magic spell dest roys it. The tunn el wends down ­
ward for several hundr ed feet, graduall y widening to 20 
feet where it ends at the doors to the Vaul t of Dragon s. 
ROO FTOP C HAS E C OMPLICA TI ONS 
d20 Complicat ion 
You come to a 10-foot-wide gap between rooftops. 
You can jump over the gap if your Strength is 10 or 
higher (each foot you clear costs 1 foot of move­
ment) , and you must succeed on a DC 10 Dexter­
ity (Acrobatics) check or fall prone on the far roof­
top. Or you can cross the gap using a 10-foot·long 
rope line that stretches between the two rooftops ; 
each foot of rope line costs 2 feet of movement. 
2 You co me to a rooftop that's 10 fee t higher than 
the on e you're on. Make a DC 10 Strength (Athlet­
ics) check . On a failed check, the height change 
counts as 10 feet of difficult terrai n. 
3 You come to a rooftop that's 10 feet lower than 
the one you're on. Make a DC 10 Strength (Athlet­
ics) check to jump down safely. On a failed check, 
you take damage from the fall and land prone . 
4 A roo f is slippery. Make a DC 10 Dexteri ty saving 
thro w. On a failed save, you fall prone. 
5 You step on a rotten section of roof, and it col­
lapses underneath you. Make a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw. On a failed save , you fall partway 
into the ho le in the roof and become stuck. While 
stuck, you are prone and rest rained. You can use 
an action on your turn to make a DC l 0 Strength 
(Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobat ics) check, ending 
the effect on a s uccess. 
6 Roof shingles or tiles give way as yo u step on 
th em . Make a DC 15 Dexter ity saving throw. On a 
failed save, you fall pro ne and slide 10 feet back. 
7 A roof top protuberance such as a chimney or 
weather vane gets in your way. Make a DC l 0 Dex­
terity (Acrobatics) check. On a failed check, the 
obstacle counts as 5 feet of difficult terrain. 
8 You startle a flock of bird s nes ting on the rooftop, 
and they flutte r all aroun d you. Make a DC 10 
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save , the birds 
count as 10 feet of difficult terrain. 
9 You trigger a glyph of warding spell placed on the 
roof to discourage burglars. Make a DC 13 Wis­
dom saving throw. On a failed save, you are tar­
geted by a Tasha's hideous laughter spel l, the effect 
of which lasts 1 minute. 
10 Som eone on the ground thro ws a rock, a snow­
ball, or a sim ilar projectil e a t you. Make a DC 10 
Dexte rity saving throw. On a failed save, the a ttack 
dea ls no damage but dist racts you and counts as 5 
fee t of difficult terra in. 
11- 20 No complication. 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAOON SEASON 
ENC OUNT ER 5: 
RO OFTOP CHASE 
This encounter uses the chase rules in chapter 8 of the 
Dungeon Master's Guide. It also uses the Rooftop Chas e 
Comp lications table, which applies only to creatur es 
moving across rooftops on foot. Flying crea tures needn't 
roll on the table. 
ROOFTOP CHASE: SUMMER -------
The chara cters are trying to catch up with three spined 
devils that keep low above the rooftops , so as not to be 
seen by Waterdeep's Griffon Cavalry. The devils are 100 
feet away from the characters at the start of the chase. 
If the devil ca rrying the Stone of Golorr becomes 
incapaci tated, another devil snatches the stone and 
flees with it. 
NEXT E NCO U NT ER 
When the chara cters are close to gett ing the sto ne, or 
when you want the chase to end, a ll rema ining spined 
devils duck into an alley. If the cha racters lose their 
qua rry, they can question city folk on the ground who 
saw where the devils went. Continue with encounter 
1, "Alley." 
ROOFTOP CHASE: AUTUMN 
The chara cters a re chas ing two drow gunslinge rs (see 
appendix B) across windy rooftop s in the Dock Ward. 
The drow stick together as they run , but each one acts 
on his ow n initia tive count. 
Fel'rekt Lafeen and Krebbyg Mas q'il'yr start out 40 
feet ahead of their pursuers. They do nothing but move 
on their turns, trying to put as much dista nce between 
themse lves a nd the charact ers as poss ible. Fel'rekt has 
the Stone of Golorr at the s tart of the chase, but one 
drow gunslinger can pass the stone to the other as a 
react ion as long as the two drow are w ithin 10 feet of 
each other. 
NEXT ENC OUNTER 
The drow keep running across the rooftops until they 
get to the run-down dockside neighborhoo d known as 
Mistshor e. Chara cters who remain in purs uit can follow 
them all the way the re. If a ll the characters lose their 
quarry, they can question city folk on the ground who 
saw the drow heading towa rd Mistshore. In either case, 
proceed w ith e ncounter 2, "Mists hore." 
ROOFTOP CHASE: WINTER 
A Zhent named Yevette Blackw ater (CE femal e 
Tethyrian human swashbu ckler ; see appe nd ix 8) has 
snatc hed the Stone of Golorr and is fleeing as fast as she 
ca n across icy rooftops durin g a blizzard. Chara cters 
who intend to pur sue her are 60 feet away from their 
quarry at the star t of the chase and must also take to the 
rooftops or lose sight of her. 
Yevette was a vicious pirate before s he joined the 
Zhentarim and rose to become one of Manshoon 's 
favored lieutenants. S he cackles madly in the face of 