danger and loves a good chase. She knows the streets, 
alleys, and rooftops of Waterdeep well. If forced to make 
an ability check or a saving throw because of a chase 
complication, she has advantage on the roll. Also, she 
can take the Dash action during the chase without hav­
ing to make Constitution checks to avoid exhaustion. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
The chase lasts no more than 5 rounds , after which 
Yevette drops to the ground and ducks into a theat er. 
Characters who lose sight of her can ask people along 
her path to help them out. Continue with encounter 6, 
"Theate r." 
E NC OU NTE R 6: THEATER 
Whether the theater is open for business or shut down, 
it bas the following features: 
• Ceilings in the rooms are 10 feet high except in area 
PS. which has a 20-foot-high raftered ceiling. Con­
necting the rooms are 8-foot-high passages and 7-foot­
high doorways. 
The theater is lit by lanterns that have continual flame 
spells cast on them. Speaking a comma nd word in­
side the theater causes the lights in the theater and 
backstage to dim; speak ing another command word 
inside the theater restores them to full brightness. All 
the stage managers know the command words. 
AREAS OF THE THEA-:..=T..=E;..:.R _____ _ 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.4. 
Pl. LOBB Y 
This plush lobby is decorated with red carpet and ornat e 
wallpaper. On display here are several painted wooden 
mann equins dresse d in fancy costumes , each one repr e­
senting a character from a famous play. 
P2. TICKET BOOTHS 
The weste rn door on eac h booth is locked. Th e lock 
can be picked by a character who succeeds on a DC 15 
Dexterity check using thieves' tools, or the door can 
be forced open with a successfu l DC 13 Strength (Ath­
letics) check. The ticket sellers and the stage manag er 
have keys to these doors. 
A stack of torn tickets sits on a she lf beneath a counter 
inside the booth. Prior to a show, each booth holds a 
ticket seller (commoner). Admiss ion to the theate r is 1 
sp per person. 
P3. 1ICKET OFFICES 
A desk near the far wall in each of these rooms contains 
notebooks, papers, and a lockbox. 
Treasure. The house managers hold the key to each 
lockbox. A lock can be picked by someone who makes a 
s uccessfu l DC 12 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, 
or a lockbox can be forced open with a successful DC 
15 St rength (Athletics) check. During a performance, 
C H APTE R 4- I DRAGON SEASO N 