First Floor 
"' ''" Cellar 
MAP 4 5 , OLD TowER 
AREAS OF T HE OLD TOW ER 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.5. 
01. VESTIBULE 
The outer door has a tiny peephole with a closed iron 
shutter on the inside. Rotting tapestries adorn the walls, 
and mud and dirt have accumulated on the floor. 
02 . GROUND LEVEL 
Stone spiral stairs curl up into the tower and down into 
the cellar. Set into the west wall is a fireplace black· 
ened with soot. A burned heap that used to be a padded 
leathe r chair lies near the fireplace. 
03. UPPER LEVEL 
This room, formerly a wizard's laboratory, contains the 
following features: 
• A soot-stained fireplace has a lidless iron cauld ron 
hanging on an iron hook in its hearth and a wizard's 
portrait on the wall above the mantelpiece. 
The floor is littered with shards of broken glass, 
burn ed scraps of paper . twisted pieces of meta l, and 
bird droppings. 
Other furnishings include a rocking chair, a trellis 
table, and the charred remains of a bookshelf, all 
shrouded in thick cobwebs. 
Arrow slits line the walls, and pigeons nest in 
the rafters. 
- .t 
Second Floor 
1 square = 5 feet 
Arrow Slits. Each arrow slit is 4 feet tall a nd l foot 
wide-big enough for a Small character or a slim Me· 
dium character to squeeze through. 
Treasur e. A thorough search of the room yields a ran· 
dom treasure, determined by rolling a d4 and consulting 
the Old Tower Treasure table. 
OLD TOWER TREASURE 
d4 
2 
Treasure 
A charred wand of magic missiles (each time a charge 
is expended, there's a SO percent chance that noth· 
ing happens and the charge is wasted) 
A potion of healing mixed with a potion of flying (if 
this mixture is imbibed, roll on the Potion Miscibil­
ity table in chapter 7 of the Dungeon Master's Guide 
to determine the effect) 
3 A cracked driftglobe that emits a flickering light but 
otherwise functions normally 
4 A burned scroll tube containing two blank sheets of 
paper that are actually paper birds (see appendix A) 
04. CELLA R 
This room contains the following features: 
• A small, circular wooden table is surrounded by four 
stools made from empty barrels. A marked deck of 
playing cards is scattered atop the table, with a few 
stray ca rds lying on the floor. 
CH APTER 4- [ DRAGON SEASON 