Three crates are stacked against the south wall. Each 
contains a twenty-day supply of edible rations. 
• Set into the north wall is a stu rdy oak door with iron 
fittings and a built-in lock. 
Locked Door. The door to area 05 is locked. The lock 
can be picked by a character who uses thieves' tools 
and makes a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. The 
door can also be forced open with a successful DC 25 
Strength (Athletics) check. 
05. TELEPORTATTON CIRCLE 
Arcane runes are inscribed in a circle on the floor of this 
otherwise empty chamber. The circle is a permanent 
teleportation circle (see the teleportation circle spell de­
scription in the Player's Handbook). 
O L D TOWER: S PRING 
The party's elusive quarry , a kenku , has taken refuge 
in an old tower. By the time the characters reach the en­
trance to the tower, the kenku has taken a hostage and 
fled to the upper level. 
STREET URCHINS 
Just prior to the kenku's arrival, three children entered 
the derelict tower on a dare. If this encounter occurs 
on or around Trolltide, the children are wearing troll 
masks. These noncombatants are named Nat.Jenks, 
and Squiddly (see "The Three Urchins," page 63). 
The kenku has kidnapped Squiddly and taken him 
upstairs (area 03). The characters encounter Nat and 
Jen ks in area 02; they beg the characters to save their 
young tiefling friend. 
CONFRONTING THE KEN KU 
The kenku clutches the Stone ofGolorr in one clawed 
hand and Squiddly the tiefiing in the other. When cor­
nered, the creatu re mimics the sound of a screaming 
child- its way of threatening to harm the boy unless the 
characters leave at once. The kenku doesn't respond to 
verbal threats or attempts at persuasion, but it can be 
bribed with coin, gemstones, or shiny baubles. It gives 
up both the stone and the boy in return for 100 gp worth 
of treasure. 
If the cha racters and the kenku reach an impasse, 
Squiddly kicks the kenku in the shin, causing it to re­
lease him, and hides under some old furniture. This act 
initiates combat as the kenku draws its sword. 
If he has a clear path to the stairs, Squiddly runs 
down them and rejoins his friends. The three children 
flee the tower together, disappearing into a nearby alley. 
GAZER ATTACK 
When the characters finally obtain the Stone of Golorr, 
three gazers (see appendix B) enter area 03 through the 
arrow slits and attack. They try to incapacitate which­
ever character has the stone and use their telekinetic 
rays to steal it. If successful, the gazers take the stone to 
a nea rby alley. 
C HAPTER 4 J DRAGON SEASON 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Whether the Stone of Golorr leaves the tower in the 
possession of the characters or the gazers, proceed with 
encounter 1, "Alley." 
OLD TOWER: SUM M ER 
The old tower, formerly owned by a wizard, was re­
cently bought by Esvele Rosznar, a young noblewoman 
with a fascinating alter ego (see "The Black Viper" in 
appendix B). 
HOUSE ROSZNAR GUARDS 
Esvele has brought four guards with her to the tower. 
They wear the livery of House Rosznar and stand guard 
in area 01. 
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR 
Through her network of spies, Esvele learned about 
Lord Neverember's friendship with the tower's previous 
owner. Not long thereafter, she found the entrance to the 
Vault of Dragons beneath the tower. Unfortunately for 
her, she doesn't know what keys are needed to enter it or 
what lies within. When the characters arrive, Esvele is 
in area 02, meeting with the following three guild repre­
sentatives (commoners ): 
• Sembra Vashir (LN female Calishite human), of the 
Carpenters', Roofers', and Plaisterers' Guild 
• Pynt Oomtrowl (CG female rock gnome), of the 
Cellarers' and Pl umbers' Guild 
• Jarbokken Frostbeard (LG male shield dwarf), of 
the Guild of Stonecutters, Masons, Potters , and 
Tile-makers 
This meeting is a formality. As the new owner, Esvele 
is required by law to bring the building up to code. S he 
is gathering cost estimates from the guilds involved 
but has no intention of proceeding with repairs . The 
arrival of the characters provides her with a welcome 
distraction . 
Characters will have a tough time convincing Esvele 
that they have come for any reason other than to break 
into the Vault of Dragons. Esvele is wi!Ling to bring them 
on as bus iness partners, allowing them access to the 
vault (preferably when there aren't guild representatives 
around) in exchange for an equal share of whatever 
treasure it might contain . She and the characters have 
each other over a barrel. She can't have them arrested 
for burglary without the authorities discovering the vault 
and seizing the tower. And they can't afford to deny the 
noblewoman what she wants, lest she divulge the vault's 
location to the authorities in exchange for a reward. 
Esvele offers to help the characters obtain the keys 
needed to unlock the Vault of Dragons and insists on ac­
companying them during their first foray into the vault, 
claiming all the while that she's capable of looking after 
herself. However this business with the party unfolds, 
she tries to conceal her secret identity from the charac­
ters for as long as possible. 
Esvele doesn't use a key to lock and unlock the door to 
area 05. She uses thieves' tools instead. 