PATH TO THE VAULT 
The entrance to the vault is hidden behind a sec ret 
door in the nonh wall of area 05. The secret door was 
crafted by skilled dwarf engineers and requfres a suc­
cessful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to locate. 
Esvele has already disarmed a magic trap on the door, 
rendering it safe to open. Beyond it lies a dusty staircase 
that descends 90 feet to a 20-foot-wide corridor. The 
hall extends another 90 feet to the vault doors. To one 
side of the vault doors. a natural fissure in the wall once 
served as a grick's lair, but Esvele killed the grick and 
left its corpse on the floor. 
OLD T OWER: AUTUMN 
The characters come to this crumbling tower in the 
Dock Ward looking for the Stone of Golorr. Members 
of Bregan D'aerthe follow them invisibly. Supe rstitious 
loca ls think the tower is haunted, so they avoid it. 
ANTIMACIC FIELD 
The interior of the tower is subject to a permanent an­
timagic field spell. Consequently, no magic functions 
inside the tower. This effect was left behind by the tow­
er's previous occupant, a wizard hermit who dabbled 
in "wild magic" and could no longer control it. Because 
of the anti magic field, the magic lights that normally 
illuminate the tower have been suppressed. Only a wish 
spell or similar magic can end this antimagic effect. 
TOWER SWORDS 
Scattered on the floors throughout the tower are six 
longswords with no traces of rust or blood on them. 
These blades are flying sword s rendered inert by the 
antimagic field. If a flying sword is taken from the tower, 
it animates and attacks. 
WHERE'S THE STONE? 
Fcnerus hid the Stone ofGolorr in the cauldron that 
hangs in the fireplace on the upper level (area 03). But 
it's not there anymore. 
Before the characters reach area 03, three drow gun­
sling ers (sec appendix B) under the effect of potions of 
invisibility use their levitate spells to sca le the outside of 
the tower and crawl through the arrow s lits. While they 
are inside the tower, their invisibility spells are negated 
by the antimagic field. One of the drow quickly finds the 
stone and takes it before the characters show up. 
Unless they were defeated earlier in the adventure, 
these drow arejarlaxle's lieutenants: Fel'rekt Lafeen, 
Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, and Soluun Xibrindas. Replace any 
that were killed earlier in the adventure with other drow 
gunslingers, and roll initiative for each drow. Soluun (or 
his replacement) can't resist a good fight and attacks the 
characters, buying time for the other drow to escape. 
Once they're outside the tower, the fleeing drow become 
invisible again as they leap onto a nearby rooftop, but 
the potions wear off at the end of their next turns, en­
abling characters to chase after them. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If the characters pursue the fleeing drow, proceed with 
encounter 5, "Rooftop Chase." 
OLD T OWER: WINTER 
The characters have learned that the Stone ofGolorr is 
with Amath Sercent, a priest of Bane who is allied with 
Manshoon. She and her acolytes reside in Yellowspire, 
a Castle Ward tower so named because its bricks have 
a pale yellow tinge to them. Amath is in the midst of 
converting the tower into a temple of Bane. A telepor­
tation circle in the basement allows for swift transport 
to and from Kolat Towers and Manshoon's extradimen­
sional sanctum. 
HOUSE OF 'TYRANNY 
Amath Sercent (LE female Mulan priest) and her four 
followers (LE male and female acolytes of mixed ethnic­
ities) dress in common clothing when outside the tower. 
Inside the structure, they wear fur-lined robes to stay 
warm . They refer to the Lower as the House of Tyranny, 
and black prints of thei r right hands, w ith fingers and 
thumb held together. cover every interi or su rface. These 
handp rints mimic the symbol of Bane. 
Amath and her followers assemble here for worship 
but sleep elsewhere. When the characters first arrive. 
all five have gathered in prayer on the upper floor of the 
tower (area 03). Three black flying s nakes nest in the 
rafters and join any battle here. During this ceremony, 
Amath and her acolytes hold candles and form a circle 
around a gagged and blindfolded broadsheet publisher 
named Shan Chien (N male Shou human commoner ). 
The imperious, middle-aged man is shackled to the 
floor, and Amath carries the key to the shackles. The 
shackles can be broken by a creature that uses an action 
to make a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. 
Picking the shackles' lock requires thieves· tools and a 
successful DC 15 Dexter ity check. 
The Banites' ritual is designed to break Shan's will, 
making him subservient to Banc. Amath has been us­
ing this ritual to "turn" broadsheet publishers as part 
of a larger plot to control the flow of information in the 
city-a critical element of Manshoon's takeover. Shan 
was abducted by A math's acolytes the night before while 
walk ing to his home in the Trades Ward. He publishes 
The Targe, a broadsheet that offers up vitriolic ra nts on 
all manner of loca l topics, including politics. 
Amath has the Stone ofGolorr in her pocket. She is 
expecting Manshoon or his simulacrum to arr ive and 
retrieve it shortly. 
OUTER SCAFFOLDING 
The tower is encircled by wooden scaffolding covered 
with ice and snow. Despite its preca rious appearance. 
the scaffolding is secure and safe to walk on, enabling 
creatures to scale the outside of the tower without 
having to make ability checks. The scaffolding rattles 
and creaks. however, and any creature that mo\·es on it 
must succeed on a DC 16 Dexterity (Stealth) check or be 
heard by the tower's occupants. 
SIMULACRUM 
The characters must fight Amath and her acolytes to 
get the Stone ofGolorr. When they finally obtain it, fate 
deals them an unkind hand as Manshoon's simulac ru m 
(see "Manshoon" in appendix B) arr ives by way of the 
CHAPTE R 4 I DRAGON SEASON 