uses their keys to open the characters' cells. ·'Hyustus" 
warns them that the magister is corrupt and suggests 
they flee the city before they're sentenced to death. 
"Hyustus" offers to deliver messages or items of import 
on their behalf while they make good their escape. The 
doppelganger is hoping that the characters will entrust 
the Stone ofGo lorr to it for safekeeping. Failing that, it 
hopes to wrest the stone from them during the chaos of 
the jailbreak. 
If the characte rs refuse to play along, the doppel­
ganger cries out in alarm, bringing the full weight of 
the courthouse garrison (ten guards and two veterans ) 
down upon the characters, whom "Hyustus" accuses of 
beating the cell block guards to death. These reinforce­
ments have no reason to believe that Captain Staget 
isn't who he appears to be, and they side with him in 
any conflict. 
If the doppelganger obtains the Stone ofGolorr, it 
prompt ly delivers it to Victoro Cassalantcr. If the char­
acters extricate themse lves from the mess they're i n, 
they can retrieve the stone from Cassalanter Villa (see 
chapter 6). 
MEETING WITH THE MACISTER 
The presiding magister is Urnbero Zastro, a handsome. 
eloquent, and fair-minded half-elf in his thirties. He"s 
known for his finely honed sense of poetic justice and 
for meting out unconventional punishments. 
Magister Umbero Zastro has the statistics of a noble , 
with these changes: 
• He is lawful neutra l. 
• He is unarmed, unarmored (AC 11), and worth 0 XP. 
• He has these racial traits: He has advantage on saving 
throws against being charmed, and magic can't put 
him to sleep. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 
feet. He speaks Common and Elvish. 
The magister bas already heard the testimony of the 
arresting officers, as well as that of any eyewitnesses. 
The characters are given an hour to plead their case 
while he asks questions. A character who tries to de­
ceive Zastro must make a Charisma (Deception) check 
contested by the magister's Wisdom (Insight) check . A 
character who loses this contest is found guilty of ham­
pering justice, locked up for a tenday. and fined 200 gp. 
on top of any other punishments meted out for crimes 
committed against the city and its citizenry. Those who 
can't or won't pay the fine are sentenced to hard labor 
for a year in Amendsfarm, a City Guard-run labor camp 
among the farms ofUndercliff. 
If the characters committed one or more crimes, they 
are judged guilty and punished according ly (see the 
Code Lega l handout in appendix C). A character who 
pleads for leniency and succeeds on a DC 14 Charisma 
(Persuasion) check receives an alternate punishment for 
crimes that don't carry punishments of death or exile. 
This check is made with advantage if the character has 
renown in a respectable faction. such as Force Grey (the 
Gray Hands), the Emerald Enclave, the Harpers, the 
Lords' Alliance. or the Order of the Gauntlet. Alternate 
punishments for lesser crimes include the following: 
CllAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEA SON 
The character must make beds and clean bed­
sheets at local orphanages for a tenday, under guard 
supervision. 
• The character must report to Morana Huldark, a 
dwarf member of the. Guild of Watermen, and scrape 
barnacles off the docks for a tenday under her close 
supervision. 
• The character must spend the next month delivering 
30-pound casks of drinking water to the guards sta­
tioned atop the city wa Its. 
• Pora tenday, the character must stand on a particular 
street corner every afternoon from highsun to dusk 
and. like a broadcrier, shout out the crimes of which 
he or she has been found guilty while accepting the 
scoldings and verbal lashings of the citizenry. 
Characters who are tricked into acting in accordance 
with the wishes of the doppelganger can be forgiven for 
crimes committed during the jai lbreak, but only if the 
doppclganger is apprehended or killed. (lt reverts to its 
true form when it dies.) Speak with dead spells can be 
cast on the cell block guards slain by the doppelganger 
to obtain testimony that clears the characters of the 
guards' murder. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
ff a character becomes attuned to the Stone ofGolorr. it 
reveals the location of the Vault of Dragons. beneath an 
old tower in the Sea Ward, and the three keys needed to 
enter it. When the characters are ready to visit the loca­
tion, proceed with encounter 7, '"Old Tower." 
COURT H OUSE : AUTUMN 
The characters have learned that Penerus Stormcastle 
is in the custody of the City Watch at a courthouse in 
the Castle Ward. If they try to speak with him. they are 
met by the clerk at the front desk, who informs them 
that they must schedule a meeting with the magister 
first, because visitors need her written permission to see 
him. The clerk says the meeting with the magister can 
happen no sooner than highsun on the following day but 
can be persuaded to move up the time for a bribe of 10 
gp or more. 
There are alternatives to speaking with the magister, 
if the characters have sufficient renown in a politically 
influential faction- or a talent for deception: 
A character who has at least 4 renown in the Harpers 
can convince Mirt (see appendix B) to use his author­
ity as a Lord ofWaterdeep to secure Penerus's re­
lease. Mirt has personally lost coin to the Blood Hawk 
Posse, so helping Fenerus squirm out of jail stings 
him deeply. 
• A character who has at least 4 renown in the Lords' 
Alliance can arrange a meeting with Laeral Silver ­
ha nd (see appendix B) at Piergciron's Palace and con­
vince her to give F'enerus what he wants in exchange 
for information on the stone's whereabouts. The safe 
return ofNeverember"s cache of dragons is more im­
portant to her than the fate of one brigand. 
• The characters can purposely get themselves arrested 
in the Castle Ward. Even a minor crime can result in 
a brief period of incarceration until the magister has 