time to render judgment. ln the meantime. characters 
can try to speak to Fenerus. 
• The characters can try to infiltrate the courthouse 
using mundan e disguises or magic. Impersonating an 
official or using magic to influence one is a crime (see 
the Code Legal handout in appendix C), so they must 
be stealthy or skilled at deception. 
MEETING WlTH THE MAGISTER 
The courthouse magister is Hester Barch (LG female 
Turami human acolyte with Insight +4), a petite woman 
in her seventies. Magister Barch is slow to anger and 
fond of sharing lengthy educational anecdotes and para­
bles. Unknown to all but her closest aides, the magister 
bas the innate psionic ability to cast the detect thoughts 
spell without somatic or material components. After 
using it once, the magister must finish a short or long 
rest before she can cast the spell again. Wisdom is her 
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12). 
The magister is disinclined to agree to any request 
for a private meeting with Fenerus, on the grounds that 
he's a shady, unrepentant person and a Bight risk. The 
conditions under which she will permit a meeting are 
as follows: 
A character who has at least 3 renown in the Harpers 
or the Lords ' Alliance, or a character who belongs 
to a Waterdavian noble family, makes a good argu­
ment and succeeds on a DC 15 Charisma (Persua­
sion) check. 
• A character who is impersonating a noble or an official 
makes a good arg ument and succeeds on a DC 15 
Charisma (Deception) check. If the check fails, Magis­
ter Barch sees through the ruse and uses her detect 
tlwughts spell to verify that the character is in fact dis­
gujsed as a noble or an official- a crime that carries a 
punishment of Bogging followed by imprisonment for 
up to a tenday, plus a fine of up to 500 gp. 
• A character tells the magister about the hidden cache 
of dragons and Fenerus's role in finding it. 
TALKING TO FENERUS 
Fenerus Stormcastle (N male Tethyrian bandit captain) 
is confined to a cell in area H8, waiting to stand trial. 
He is charged with multiple counts of theft (highway 
banditry) and assaults against Waterdavian citizens. 
Fenerus knew it was only a matter of time until some­
one tipped off the City Watch; he suspects that another 
member of the Blood Hawk Posse gave him up. The 
timing is unfortunate for him, since he was planning to 
earn a small fortune by turning over the Stone ofGo­
lorr to his Luskanite contact. Now, he plans to use the 
stone to escape imprisonment and wipe his criminal 
record clean. 
If the characters can get close enough to speak with 
him, Fenerus refuses to divulge the stone's location until 
he is released and granted immunity for his past crimes. 
He knows that the presiding magister or a Lord of Wa­
terdeep has the authority to give him what he wants. 
The only condition under which Magister Barch will 
consider acquiescing to Fenerus's demands is if the 
characters convince her that such a decision is good 
for Waterdeep. To accomplish that, they either must 
use magic to beguile her (which is a crime and likely to 
result in the caster's arrest once the effect wears off), 
or they must tell her about the Vault of Dragons and the 
stolen gold. In either case, she insists on trying some­
thing before letti ng him off the hook: after tak ing a short 
rest, she has Fenerus brought to her court room and 
questions him about the stone. Surreptitiously, she uses 
her detect thoughts spell to scan his surface thoughts in 
an attempt to discern the stone's location. Given that the 
stone is foremost in Fenerus's mind, Magistrate Barch 
learns where it is hidden, shares the information with 
the characters, and returns Fenerus to his cell. 
WHERE'S THE STONE? 
Fenerus hid the Stone ofGolorr on the top Boor of an 
old tower in the Dock Ward-a tower warded against all 
forms of magic. If he is freed, he offers to lead the char­
acters to the tower or provides directions so they can 
find it on his own. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If the characters learn where Fenerus hid the stone and 
go after it, proceed with encounter 7, "Old Tower." 
ENC OUNTE R 9: 
CELLAR C OMP LEX 
Cellars and sewe r tunnels intersect to create small 
dungeons under Waterdeep. These comp lexes have the 
following features: 
• Ceilings and doorways are 7 feet high. 
• There are no light source s. 
AREAS OF THE CELLAR COMPLEX 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.7. The 
complex has three distinct sections: the sewer tunnels 
(areas Bl-B3), the southern cellars (areas 84-89), and 
the northern cellars (areas 810- Bll). 
Bl. SEWER ACCESS 
This chamber has stone steps and a locked, iron-bound 
wooden door with a sign mounted on il that reads , in 
Common, "SEWER ACCESS: AUTHORIZED CITY OFFI­
CIALS ONLY." The door to area 82 is locked. The lock 
can be picked by a character who makes a successful 
DC 17 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, or the door 
can be forced open with a successful DC 20 Strength 
(Athletics) check. City Watch captains hold keys to 
sewer access points that correspond with their as­
signed wards. 
B2. SEWERS 
Fresh sewage Rows along a trough that runs parallel to 
a stone walkway. The sewage is 3 feet deep. Any crea­
ture immer sed in it for 1 minute must succeed on a DC 
11 Constitution saving throw or become infected with 
sewe r plague (sec "Diseases" in cha pter 8 of the Dun­
geon Master's Guide). 
Where the tunnel branches, a stone bridge spans 
the sewage pouring out of an eastern artery. Ther e's 
no walkway in this arterial passage that leads to areas 
B3 and B4. 
CHAPTER ·1 I DRAGON SEASO N 