The boys were panicked by her reaction and fled as well, 
leaving the stone in area B7. If the characters open the 
door at area B4, they startle the children on the other 
side, causing them to scream at the top of their lungs. 
Communicating through the other children, Nat tells 
the characters where she dropped the stone and warns 
them that it's "alive." Neither she nor the boys are eager 
to see it again. 
CHAIR TODAY, GONE TOMORROW 
If the characters head to area B7, they see the Stone of 
Golorr underneath a wooden rocking chair. If the street 
urchins are present, one of them asks, "Where'd that 
rocking chair come from?" 
The rocking chair is the mimic from area B9b. It 
heard the urchins ' screams and investigate d, hoping to 
snare an easy mea l. It attacks anyone who harm s it or 
reaches for the stone. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Once the cha racters obtain the Stone ofGolorr, they 
can leave the cellar complex. Proceed with encounter 8, 
"Courthous e." 
CELLAR COMPLEX: AUTUMN 
The characters have been encouraged to explore a 
Xanathar Guild hideout under the Southern Ward. They 
enter the location through area Bl. The Xaoathar Guild 
Roster table provides a summa ry of the forces statione d 
throughout the complex. The sections that follow de­
scribe some of the hideout's features. 
XAN AT H A R GUILD ROSTER 
Area 
BS 
B6 
87 
B8 
BlO 
Bl la 
Creature(s) 
2 goblins behind arrow slits 
l half-ogre that became poisoned after drinking six 
casks of cheap wine 
3 duergar and 1 gazer (see appendix B) standing 
guard while Thorvin Twinbeard (see appendix B) 
works on a mechanical beholder (see "Mechanical 
Beholder" below) 
Korgstrod Uxgulm, the duergar leader (40 hit 
points), seated in a stone chair and attended by 3 
kobolds (see "Stone of Deception" below) 
7 troglodytes lurking in the shadows 
l gibbering mouther guarding a treasure chest in 
area Bl lb (see "Treasure Chest" below) 
MECHANICAL BEHOLDER 
A mechanical beholder built for the Day of Wonders 
parade lies on its side in area B7. Xanathar wants this 
mechanical version of itself to hover over the crowd, 
reminding the Lords of Waterdeep of the beholder's 
superiority, but no one can figure out how to make it 
fly. A character can use an action to try to activate the 
machine, doing so with a successfu l DC 10 Intelligence 
check. The activated beholder shoots dazzling lights 
from its eyesta lks for 1 minute and then stops working . 
If combat breaks out in the cellar complex, Thorvin 
Twinbeard flees up the stairs in area BB and uses a key 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGO N SEASON 
to unlock the door leading outside. He has no loyalty to 
the other creatures stationed here. 
STONE OF DECEPTION 
Korgstrod Uxgulm, the duergar leader, has what he 
believes to be the Stone of Golorr. He found it during 
a search of Fenerus's house in the Trades Ward. This 
stone is a clever imitation. It's gray and ovoid with 
streaks of black, but has no magical powers. Korgstrod 
has been unable to attune to it and assumes he's unwor­
thy of it, not that the stone is fake. 
Korgstrod plans to deliver the stone to Xanathar in 
due time and won't willingly part with it before then. He 
uses a whip to flog his kobold lackeys and keep them in 
line. The cowardly kobolds flee into the sewers ifKorg­
strod is attacked and cower in his presence otherwise. 
TREASURE CHEST 
An old, locked chest in the back of area Bllb can be 
opened by someone who makes a successfu l DC 13 
Dexterity check using thieves' tools. The chest contains 
277 cp, 135 sp, a spherical gold beholder pendant with 
tiny gems for eyes (worth 250 gp), and a spell scroll of 
darkvision. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Whether they find the fake stone or not, characters have 
little recourse but to consult with "Laeral" at the Seven 
Masks Theater in the Dock Ward. If they go there, pro­
ceed with encounte r 6, "Theater." 
ENCOUNTER 10: 
CONVERTED WINDMILL 
This crumbling, two-story stone building was a wind­
mill long before the city rose up around it. The following 
features apply unless an area description or encounter 
states otherwise: 
• Rooms have 15-foot-high ceilings, with 10-foot-high 
passages and 7-foot-high doorways connecting them. 
• Doors are wooden, closed, and unlocked. 
• The walls are covered with graffiti, and the stone 
floors are strewn with garbage and detritus. Windows 
are empty lead frames without glass. 
• There are no light sources. 
AREAS OF THE 
CONVERT ED WIN DMILL 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.8. 
Wl. STONE STAIRCASE 
A curved set of stone sta irs climbs 20 feet to the upper 
level. The sta irs are covered with bird droppings, broken 
roof shingles, mud, and mold. 
W2. SQUATTERS 
During the spring, summer, and winter, each of these 
rooms is home to ld6 + 1 squatters (commoners) who 
have made dens for themselves out of old furnishings 
and things salvaged from garbage piles. The squatters 
aren't looking for trouble . 