M~P 4 8: Co111 v e~TED W1NDMILL 
For some food or coin, a squaller can direct or lead 
characters to the locked apartment on the upper level 
(area W7) and describe the apartment's inhabitants. A 
character can also secure a squatter's cooperation with 
a successful DC 10 Charisma (Intimidation) check. 
W3. PRIVY 
Beyond the door is nothing more than a hole in the ftoor 
from which rises a terrible stench. 
W4. WEAK CEILING/FLOOR 
Area W4a is directly underneath area W4b. The ftoor 
of the upper chamber collapses under the weight of the 
first Small or larger creature to walk across it. A charac ­
ter who has the Stonecunning trait or proficiency with 
mason's tools can tell that the Ooor is unsafe to walk on. 
Any creature standing on the Ooor of area W4b when 
it collapses falls 20 feet, landing in area W4a. Any crea ­
ture in area W4a when the ceiling falls in must make a 
DC 11 Dexterity saving th row, taking 4 {ld8) bludgeon­
ing damage from falling debris on a failed save, or half 
as much damage on a successful one. 
W5. ANCIENT MILLSTONE 
An ancient millstone lies under a jumble of debris that 
includes machinery and pieces of the collapsed roof. 
Dust and cobwebs cover everything. 
W6. PIGEON ROOSTS 
Large sections of the roof have caved in above these 
rooms, leaving boles through which birds and precipita-
Upper Floor 
1 square = 5 feet 
tion can enter. The floors are littered with broken shin­
gles. bird droppings, wrecked furnishings. and other de­
tritus, and scores of pigeons roost in the moldy rafters. 
W7. SECURE APARTMENT 
The north door to this room has been fitted with a shiny 
new lock that can be picked with a successful DC 15 
Dexterity check using thieves' tools. The door can also 
be unlocked from inside the room, or forced open with a 
successfu l DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check . 
This apartment is in good repair and contains the fol-
lowing features: 
A wood-framed, king-sized bed with clean mattresses 
stands against one wall. (Next to the bed, an unlocked 
door in the west wall leads to area W8.) 
• The window was recently repaired and quietly swings 
open on oiled iron hinges. 
• Across from the window, against the wall, stands a 
wooden armoire. 
The armoire holds four clean sets of clothes, two gray 
cloaks, a heavy crossbow, and a wooden case containing 
twenty crossbow bolts. 
W8. BACK ROOM 
The section of conical roof directly above this cham­
ber has mostly collapsed, filling the room with rubble. 
There's just enough space to open the door. 
CHAPT ER 4 I DRAGO~ SEASO N 