CONVERTED WINDMILL: SPRING 
The key that the characters found in the mausoleum 
leads them to an old windmill in the Southern Ward. 
Volkarr Kibbens and Urlaster Ghann (NE male Illuskan 
human commoners) are hiding out in a secure apart­
ment on the upper floor (area W7). In combat, they wield 
shovels that deal damage as clubs. Each carries 3d6 gp 
in a pouch. 
Volkarr and Urlaster were recently hired by Losser 
Mirklav. a halfling necromancer , to help him break into 
mausoleums in the City of the Dead. They undertook the 
job because the pay was good, but they have no loyalty 
to the necromancer. If the characters confront them , 
Volkarr and Urlaster attack, but they surrender quickly 
if overwhelmed and share the following information in 
exchange for their lives and freedom: 
• Losser Mirklav and his two human apprentices, 
Retchyn and Kreela, live in a cellar complex under 
the Trades Ward. The way to their lair is through 
Retchyn's powdered wig shop, which is called 
Dandymops. 
Losser is stealing bones from the City of the Dead to 
create an army of animated skeletons . (Neither Vol­
karr nor Urlaster knows why.) 
• In the Garloth mausoleum, Losser killed a rat and 
took the small stone it was carry ing. The rat vanished 
when it died, and Losser thinks the stone is magical. 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
Once the cha racters set out to find the halfling necro­
mancer , proceed with encounte r 9, "Cellar Complex." 
CONVERTED WINDMILL: SUMMER 
The characters head to a decrepit building in the South­
ern Ward that used to be a windmill. Therein, they 
expect to find the Stone of Golorr in the clutches of two 
treacherous cult fanatics named Arn Xalrondar (LE 
male Tethyrian human) and Seffia Naelryke (LE female 
Tethyrian human). 
CULT FANATICS 
Arn and Seffia are waiting in area W7, which they use 
as an apa rtment. They keep the door to the apartment 
locked at all times. They have cleared area W8 of debris 
and painted a pentagram in blood on the floor. At the 
points of the pentagram are five black globs of wax- the 
remains of burned candles. 
Lord Cassalanter sent Arn and Seffia on a mission 
to retrieve the Stone ofGolorr from his family's mau­
soleum. He also gave them secret orders to dispose of 
three other members of the cult whom he couJdn't trust 
to keep quiet about the stone. Arn and Seffia would 
be horrified to learn that they failed in so simple a 
task; they try to correct their mistake by killing Vaelle 
Lurval if she's with the party (see "Mausoleum: Sum­
mer," page 70). 
DEVILS' ARRIVAL 
As characters try to break into the cult fanatics' apart­
ment, three spine d d evils arrive. The devils tly to the 
tower, knock on the apartment window, and are let 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
inside by Seffia, whereupon Arn gives one of them the 
Stone ofGoforr. When the cha racters enter, they see the 
devils fly off with the stone. The cult fanatics do every­
thing in their power to enable the devils to escape . 
NEXT ENCOUNTER 
If the characters deal with the cult fanatics , they can 
chase after the fieeing spined devils by running across 
rooftops. Proceed with encounter 5, "Rooftop Chase." 
CONVERTED WINDMILL: AUTUMN 
This old stone windmill was converted into a residence 
over a century ago and has fallen into disrepai r. An 
eccentric Waterdavian artist lives here, and she hasn't 
been the same since her true love abandoned her. There 
are no squatte rs in the residence. 
The outside doors are always locked. A lock can be 
picked with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check by a 
character using thieves' tools, or a door can be smashed 
open with a successf ul DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 
check. Any atte mpt to break into the tower is 75 percent 
likely to be seen or heard by one of Ka Iain's neighbors. 
Eight veterans of the City Watch arrive 10 minutes later 
to investigate the Lntrusion. 
LET ME PAINT You A PICTURE 
Kalain, a famous Waterdavian painter , was comm is­
sioned to paint a portrait of Lord Dagult Neverember, 
then Waterdeep's Open Lord, in 1475 DR. Her meeting 
with Neverember marked the beginning of a torrid love 
affair that lasted over a year. One of the many gifts he 
lavished on her was an estate in the Sea Ward. 
Their relationship faltered as Dagult's visits to Never­
winter became more frequent and extended. He made 
promises to Kalain that he failed to keep, and when she 
raised the subject of faithful commitment, he treated 
her poorly, for his true love was Neverwinter. KaJain 
became enrage d after Dagult's rejection and turned to 
painting monsters that, in her mind, represented him. 
Her power to harness the Weave clings to the fabric of 
her works, giving her the ability to bring these monsters 
to life on command. 
Ultimately, Neverember used his influence to ruin Ka­
lain and divorce her from Waterdeep 's high society. She 
was allowed to keep her home, but her works and her 
reputation were destroyed, slowly and methodically . Ka­
Jain's spirit was broken, leading to the onset of madness. 
Now she locks herself away, content to let time erode the 
last of her conscie nce. She always saw Dagult and Wa­
terdeep as one and the same, and now they are both her 
mortal enemies. 
VISITING THE RE SIDENCE 
Kalain is unable to behave polHely before strangers, for 
she believes they're all assassins sent by Dagult Never­
ember to murder her. The only person with whom she's 
civil is Vhaspar Holmdreg (LG male Illuskan human 
priest) , who rents a room in the west wing of the resi­
dence and works in the North Ward at the Hospice of St. 
Laupsenn, a temple of II mater, god of suffering. Vhaspar 
is an old man in his seventies, half blind with cata racts, 
who brings her food twice a week , firewood three times 