PAINTING OF A DWARF MINER 
A painting of a dwarf miner priced at 5d 10 gp can be 
found each day a character spends searching art shops. 
A character proficient with painter's supplies can create 
a painting that qualifies as this key. rt takes 3d6 hours to 
finish the painting. 
PAIR OF BUGBEAR EARS 
The Xanathar Guild employs bugbears, and characters 
can chop the ears off any of them. A live bugbear also 
counts as this key. 
PERFORMANCE OF "YOUR BEARDY FACE" 
The dwarf love song, ''Your Beardy Face ," is a duet per­
formed by bagpipers. The characters can obtain this 
music easily for 1 gp and hire two performers to play the 
piece for 10 gp each. A character who has proficiency 
with bagpipes can perform the song, though a success­
ful DC 10 Charisma (Performance) check using bag­
pipes is required for the performance to count as this 
key. A glass jar in Cassalanter Villa (see chapter 6, area 
C3) plays this song when it is uncorked. 
SEVERED DROW HAND 
This ghastly key can be forcibly obtained from a mem­
ber of Bregan D'aerthe or some other dark elf. If the 
characters have encountered no drow, they might hear 
rumors that Xanathar employs a drow advisor. 
SHAPECHANGER 
Any living creature of the shapechanger subtype, such 
as a doppelganger or a wererat, serves as this key. Bon­
nie the doppelganger (see "Familiar Faces," page 20) 
can be persuaded to accompany the characters if she 
is friendly toward one or more of them. The characters 
can also reach out to the Shard Shunners, a local gang 
of halfiing wererats. For an up-front payment of 500 gp, 
the wererats happily oblige. 
SILVERED WARHAMMER 
The characters can buy a silvered warhammer for 115 
gp, or they can give a silver bar to Embric and Avi (see 
chapter 2, area T3) and have the genasi smiths craft one. 
SUNLIGHT 
Since the vault lies deep underground, natural sunlight 
is difficult to come by. Clever characters can buy twenty 
steel mirrors (5 gp each) and arrange them in places 
(and at the proper angles) so that sunlight from outside 
can be reflected underground and shone upon the vault 
entrance. Setting up these mirrors and getting their 
alignment just right takes 2d4 + 2 hours regardless of 
the number of characters involved. 
UNICORN 
Although conjuring up a real unicorn is likely beyond 
the abilities of the characters, they could ask Laeral 
Silverhand or Vajra Safahr to cast the summon celes­
tial spell. The characters can gain an audience with 
Laeral or Vajra through Renaer Neverember or another 
well-connected NPC. If the characters tell Laera l or 
Vajra the truth about the Vault of Dragons and prom­
ise to turn the gold over to the authorities, either one 
CHAPTER 4 I DRAGON SEASON 
agrees to accompany the characters to the vault and cast 
the spell. 
The unicorn need not be a real unicorn to serve as 
this key. The Sea Maidens Faire (see chapter 7) uses a 
unicorn float in its parades, and a stuffed unicorn can be 
found in Cassalanter Villa (see chapter 6, area T18). 
VAU LT OF DRAG ONS 
Once the characters have the Stone of Golorr, they can 
use it to determine the location of the Vault of Dragons 
and the keys needed to enter it. 
VAULT FEATU RES 
All areas of the vault have the following features: 
• Any spell that tries to contact a creature in the vault 
fails, as does any spell that attempts to scry on the 
vault interior or any creatures within. Teleporting into 
the vault from outside is impossible. 
• Walls are made of mortared stone. Doors are solid 
stone slabs with stone handles and hinges. 
• Except in area V9, there are no light sources. 
AREAS O F THE VAULT 
The following locations are keyed to map 4.9. 
Vl. VAULT DOOR 
A 20-foot-high, 20-foot-wide stone corridor ends be­
fore an adamantine double door bearing Dwarvish 
runes. The doors have neither handles nor hinges. The 
writing on them reads, "THE THREE KEYS. BRING 
THEM FORTH." 
The doors part, sliding back into the walls, when the 
three correct keys are brought with 5 feet of them. They 
remain open until Aurinax or someone else speaks the 
command word to close them ("Azaam"). The keys can 
open the doors from either side. The doors can't be 
forced open or damaged in any way, and attempts to cir­
cumvent them with magic fail automatically. 
V2. ENTRANCE FOYER 
This vast chamber has the following features: 
• Three age-worn columns support crumbling stone 
bridges 60 feet overhead, with the ceiling rising an­
other 20 feet beyond that. 
• Set into alcoves are twelve sets of double doors 
made of iron. Each door is 10 feet wide, 10 feet high, 
and embossed with images of dwarf warriors in 
plate armor. 
Crumbling Bridg es. The bridges connect area V4 to 
adamantine doors that seal off areas V6, V7, and V8. 
The eastern half of the northern bridge and the western 
half of the southern bridge are unstable. Either bridge 
collapses if more than 150 pounds of weight is applied 
to it. A creature standing on a section of bridge when 
it collapses must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or fall 60 feet to the floor below. 
The middle bridge has a 15-foot-wide gap in it. A char­
acter can clear this gap with a running jump-but part 
of the bridge breaks away under the character's feet on 