since he ca n't eas ily carry the dragonstaff of Ahghairon 
in dragon form. The dragon attacks only in defense of 
itself, the staff, or the gold. The only individuals autho­
rized to remove the gold under Aurinax's watch are 
Dagult Neverember and his appointed vassals, none of 
whom are currently in Waterdeep. 
The characte rs can try to convince Aurinax that they 
have come on Neverembe r's behalf. Since he has never 
met them before or heard Neverember mention them 
by name , Aurinax is doubtful of their story. Fooling the 
dragon requires each character within his line of sight to 
succeed on a Charisma (Deception) check contested by 
the dragon's Wisdom (Insight) check. If even one cha r­
acter loses the contest, Aurinax senses that t he group is 
lying to him. These checks are made with advantage if 
Renaer Neverember is with the party, since the dra gon 
remember s meeting Renaer when he was but a child 
and can easily imagin e a scena rio in which Dagult Nev­
erember might use his son as his vassa l. (The dragon 
knows nothing of the animosity betwee n Renae r and 
his father.) 
The characters can try to convince the noble dragon 
that Lord Neverember embezz led the gold from the 
people ofWaterdeep, and that it would be fair and just 
to see the coin safely returned to its rightful owners. 
Deep down, Aurinax knows where the gold came from, 
but the dragon has allowed his greed and his agreement 
with Lord Neverember to cloud his moral judgm ent. 
With a successfu l DC 18 Charisma (Pers uasion) check, 
a cha racter can talk the dragon into allowing the gold to 
be returned to the people to whom it rightfully belongs. 
The check is made with advantage if the chara cters 
brought a prominent city official with them, such as Mirt 
or Vajra Safahr, or if one of the characters professes to 
be a worship er of Bahamut. 
Any Charisma (Intimidat ion) check made to influence 
Aurinax automatically fails. After the first such attempt, 
all futur e Charisma checks made by the party to influ­
ence Aurinax have disadvantage. 
Aurinax uses Legendary Resistanc e to avoid being 
charmed . If a characte r tries to cha rm him with a spell 
and fails, all future Chari sma checks made by the part y 
to influence Aurinax have disadvantage. 
Treasure. Choose two alcoves in the vault. Piled in 
one alcove are 500,000 gp, the combined weight of 
which is 10,000 pounds . Scattered on the floor of the 
second alcove are sixty-five 100 gp gemstones-all that 
remains of Aurinax's current food supply. 
Aurinax won't give up his gemstones or the dragon ­
sta.ff of Ahghairon willingly, since they are his payment 
for guarding the gold. If need be, however, the dragon 
is willing to use the staff's power on behalf of the city in 
exchange for more gemstones . 
LEAVING THE VAULT 
As the characters leave the vault, with or witho ut the 
gold, they are confro nted by a hostile force sent by the 
main villain or villains. If the vault doors were left open, 
the characters encounter these antagonists in area V2; 
otherwise, they're lurking outside the vault, waiting for 
the cha racter s to emerge : 
• IfXanathar is the main villain, Noska Ur'gray (see 
appendix B) arrives with six bug bears and a gazer 
(see appendix B). If Noska is dead or otherwise indis­
posed, the beholder replaces him with Nar' l Xibrindas 
(see appendix B) and his grell bodyguard . 
• If the Cassa lanters are the villains, they send thr ee 
cult fanatics and three cultists. Victoro's doppel­
ganger mans ervant , Willi fort Crowelle, leads the 
group in his tiefting guise unless the characters killed 
him or otherwise disposed of him earlier in this chap­
ter or in chapter 6. 
Ifjarlaxle Baenr e (see appendix B) is the villain, he 
arrives with three drow guns lingers (see appendix B). 
Replace no-name drow gunslingers with Fel'rekt La­
feen, Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, and Soluun Xibrindas if they 
are alive and free. 
If Mans hoon is the main villain, he sends his simula­
crum (see appendix B) along with Agorn Fuoco (NE 
male Turami human bard ; see appendix B), Yevette 
Blackwater (CE female Tethyrian human swashbuck­
ler; see appendix B), and three Zhent thugs . If Agorn 
and Yevette were killed or other wise disposed of 
ear lier in this chapter or in chapte r 8, replace each of 
them with one additional thug. 
The forces sent by Xanathar, the Cassa lanters, and 
Mans hoon attac k the chara cters on sight.jarlax le, on 
the other hand, congratul ates cha racters for unlocking 
the Vault of Dragon s and allows them to leave on the 
conditio n that they go empty-hande d. He intends to see 
the gold safely ret urned to the city ofWaterd eep but also 
demands the dragonstaff of Ahghairon for his trouble. 
If Aurinax is alive, the characters can lure enemies to 
the dragon . Aurinax attacks any creature that attacks 
him or tries to steal his staff or the gold. He also defends 
the characte rs if he has made a deal with them. 
FACTION REI NF ORCEMENTS 
If the characters joined one or more factions in Water­
deep and kept them informed of their progress, you can 
have reinforcements arrive to help combat the villains or 
introduce a new element to the sit uation. 
Bregan D'aerthe. If jarlaxl e Baenre (see appendix 
B) isn't the main villain, he a rrives with his lieutenants , 
Fel'rekt Lafeen, Krebbyg Masq'il'yr, and Soluun Xibrin­
das, or three other drow gunslingers (see appendix B). 
jarlaxJe offers to help the cha racters if they agree to help 
him secure the gold for Waterdeep and the dragonstaff 
of Ahghairon for himself. 
Harpers. Mirt (see appendix B) arrives with two 
female human swas hbucklers (see appendix B). If 
he's still alive and not already with the charact ers, Re­
naer Neverember (see append ix B) replaces one of the 
swashbucklers. 
Emerald Enclave. j eryth Phaulkon sends three 
swarms of rats to assist the characte rs. Once the char­
acters are no longer in peril, the rats disp erse through­
out the vault. 
Force Grey. Vajra Safahr sends Meloon Wardragon 
(see append ix B) to help the characters secure the vault, 
unawar e that Meloon has fallen under Xanathar's sway. 
If Xanathar is the main villain, Meloon helps the behold­
er's forces defeat the chara cters . 
CHAPTER 4' I DRAGON SEASON 