Lords' A lliance. Open Lord Laeral Si.lverhand (see 
appendix 8) arrives with jalester Silvermane (see 
appendix 8) and six City Gua rd veterans to help charac­
ters secure the gold. Lacral's arrival forcesjarlaxle to be 
on his best behavior. After assuring Laeral of his good 
intentions.jarlaxle cuts his losses and withdraws peace­
fully. If she is able to speak with Aurinax. Laeral con­
vinces the dragon to relinquish the gold into her custody. 
Order of the Gauntl et. Hlam (see appendix B) ar­
rives and aids the characters as best he can. He and 
Aurinax met each other many years ago, and they are 
on fair speaking terms. Aurinax is fond of the monk. 
and characters who negotiate with the dragon in Hlam·s 
presence gain advantage on their Charisma (Persua­
sion) chec ks. 
Zhentarim. The Doom Raiders (see appendix B) 
arrive to help secure the vault, less any members who 
have been arrested or killed. If Manshoon is the main 
villain, Skeemo Wcirdbotl le betrays his fellow Doom 
Raider s and fights alongside Manshoon's simulacrum. If 
they and the characters eme rge victorious. the surviving 
Doom Raiders propose to split the take even ly with the 
characters. If the characters refuse this offer and the 
Doom Raiders outnumber them, the Zhents turn against 
them. putting cha racters who are Zhentarim members 
in a predicament. 
ADVEN TUR E C ONC LU SION 
The adventure could play out in any of severa l ways, 
depending on who gets the gold and what's done with 
the treasure. 
D YING IN THE VAULT 
If the characters die in the Vault of Dragons with the 
Stone ofGolorr and the main villain doesn't know the 
vault's location, the secrets of the vault die with them. 
Though they succumbed in the process, they succeeded 
in keeping the gold out of the villain's clutches - a bitter­
sweet victory, indeed. 
REMOVING THE GOLD 
If the characte rs recover Ncvcrcmber's hoard and keep 
it for themselves, word gets out eventually. 
Emissaries of the Harp ers, the Lords' Alliance, and 
the Order of the Gauntlet come lo the characters, asking 
that the gold be returned to Waterdeep. If the characters 
refuse to give it up, they arc stripped of any member­
ships they might hold in these factions and quickly find 
themselves in political hot wate r. The Lords of Water­
deep charge them with the crime of robbery against the 
citizens of the city. The characters face up to 1 month of 
hard labor plus damages equal lo the value of the stolen 
currency plus 500 gp. If they try to flee the city, the City 
Guard apprehends and imprisons them. If they some­
how evade the local authorities, the Harpers and agents 
of the Lords' Alliance pursue them tirelessly. 
CHA PTER 4 I OR.AGON Sl':ASON 
Laeral Silverhand is prepared to let the characters 
keep one-tenth of the treasure (50,000 gp) for them­
selves. Even that much coin attracts unwanted attention, 
in the form of several people who beg loans or donations 
from them: 
• Emmek Frewn (sec "Business Rival: Emrnek Frewn." 
page 42) needs 1.500 gp to pay off a loan with in­
terest. If he doesn't repay the coin in a tenday. Istr id 
Horn (see appendix B) sends Zhentarim thugs to 
threaten. if not hurt, him. Emmek comes to the char­
acters with hat in hand, preying on their generosity 
while denying any wrongdoing on his part. 
• Davil Starsong (see appendix 8) asks the characters 
for a donation of 5,000 gp to keep his branch of the 
Zhentarim anoat in Waterdeep. Recent altercations 
and legal issues have drained the Doom Raiders' cof­
fers. If the chara cters refuse, the Doom Raiders are 
driven out of the city, yielding control of the Zhentarim 
in Waterdeep to Mans hoon (if he's alive). 
• Floon Blagmaar (see appendix 8) asks the characters 
to give him 500 gp to cover a hefty gambling debt. If 
the chara cters refuse to give Floon the gold, he van­
ishes without a trace ldlO days later. 
• Voloth amp Geddarm (see appendix B) asks the 
cha racters for 5,000 gp to fund an expedi tion that he 
hopes will inspire a future book, for which he'll give 
them specia l mention in said masterwork. If the char­
acters seem hesitant. Volo reminds them that were it 
not for his starting them off on this adventure, they 
wouldn't have the gold in the first place. 
• Jelenn Urmbrusk. a Masked Lord in debt to Man­
shoon, requests an interest-free loan of 10.000 gp, 
which she vows to repay within a year. In exchang e, 
she promises to use her "considerable inHuence with 
the Lords of Waterdeep" to help them in the future. If 
the characters oblige, she makes good on her prom ­
ise to pay them back and grants them a special favor 
(see "Marks of Prestige" in chapter 7 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide). If they refuse, they will have made an 
enemy of the secret Masked Lord. 
Temples, charili es, guilds, and down-on-their-luck 
strange rs come knocking from time to time. What 
they ask for isn' t much - a few gold here and there ­
but it all adds up. 
ONWARD AND DOWNWARD 
The characters should be 5th level by the end of this 
adventure. In the weeks that follow, word of their deeds 
spreads to every corner of Waterdeep. Finally, a note is 
delivered to them that reads as follows: 
Undermountain beckons. See you at the Yawning Portal. I 
If the characters want to explore Undermounta in. you 
can continu e this campaign up through 20th level with 
the book Waterdeep: Dungeon of the Mad Mage. 